This is going to be, as we all know, a
really interesting week for tech.
>> It's more about tech than it ever has
been.
>> Investors are starting to demand a
little bit more.
>> Anytime you have a technology shift,
you're going to have big winners and big
losers.
>> The big question is, can we still see
the degree [music] of margin expansion
out of the tech names? This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with [music] Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, ramping up spending. Mega
cap tech showing no signs of easing up
on a major spending spree. Fed chair
JPAL heading towards the exit, hitting
pause on rate cuts. And gold continuing
its explosive move higher on a 9-day
record-breaking rally. gold topping
5,500 for the first time ever.
>> This rally is 28% [music] so far in
2026. We are not yet done with the first
month of this year. Trading is getting
thinner. A lot of banks are having
difficulty [music]
taking more risk. There is a question
why is this because of the investment in
the fiscal world? Is this because of
concerns about Fed independence despite
what Fed chair J Powell is talking
about? Is this a sell America trade or
is this a trade that has taken on a life
of its [music] own as people go to
Costco and buy gold bars?
>> It's not just gold. Gold up by close to
30%, silver up by more than 60, copper
up by 12% already year to date.
>> And a lot of this has to do with not
just the precious metals and the idea of
a debasement trade and wanting to store
value. When you think of metals like
copper and silver, you can actually use
in the physical world. As you see the
[music] capex spending coming from
places like Meta and Microsoft, what's
going on with the AI trade, you can
understand why commodities are moving
higher.
>> Big move in the equity market as well.
Six days of gains on the NASDAQ 100.
More gains ahead for us. S&P [music] 500
futures up by a tenth of 1%. These two
names in focus, Meta and Microsoft,
major [music] spending plans, but if you
don't put up the growth, you'll be
punished. And that's the difference
between the performance of those two
names in a pre-market.
>> This is to me the key question. What was
it about the tenor [music] of the way
that they described some of the spending
that caused such polar opposite
responses in markets? Meta said it was
going to spend [music] up to $135
billion this year. That is up more than
85% from the same time last year with
some $71 billion. And people are
rewarding them because guess what?
They're showing that they are actually
reaping benefits in some of their ads,
[music] in some of the spending that
advertisers are are giving them. At the
same time, Microsoft a big question
about a lack of capacity to really meet
demand. [music] And that I think
continues to be the ongoing.
>> They're both spending a ton, but it's
where they're spending. And for [music]
Microsoft, the fact of the matter is
that growth is not in Azure the same way
investors wanted [music] to see. When it
comes to meta, the spend is outrageous,
but where it's going, investors like.
>> Should we get to the Fed,
>> please?
>> These were the headlines after the
close. [music] It was big tech the Fed.
Here's the recap from RBC. No comment.
Literally, that's the headline. HSBC
some descent, but no change in
direction. [music]
City's Andrew Honhorse chairpower did
his best to give no new guidance. So, I
actually did a bunch of searches about
how often he said something like Jerick
Powell said something like, "I don't
have anything for you on that today. I
don't really have any response to
[music] that. I'll refer you to my
statement. I won't give you anything
additional to that." Pretty much most of
the answers that people want, [music]
uh, most of the questions that people
want answers to. Are you going to stay
on the Federal Reserve? What's your view
about the independence of the Fed? How
about [music] that subpoena? That is a
requirement to resolve before we can get
any additional members of the [music]
Fed confirmed by Congress. All of these
questions, I don't have anything for you
for that today. So, right now, we're
looking at the economic backdrop and
that right now remains in a pretty even
place.
>> Journalists did their best to make it
interesting and ultimately Chair Power
was determined to make it boring and he
won. Equity futures right now in the S&P
just about unchanged. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Edardenni of
Yard Denny Research as big tech lift
stocks to record highs. Angelo Zeno of
CFRA with Max 7 earnings in full swing.
Plus, Claudia S of New Century Advisers
as Fed chair J Pals the script. We begin
this hour with stocks building on record
highs and the dollar sliding. Ed Yardi
of Yardelli Research writing, "A weak
dollar boosts the gains for US investors
in overseas financial markets. It
certainly supports our recommendation to
overweight emerging market stocks." Ed
joins us now for more. Ed, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Hey, it's good to see you. Is this a
repeat of Q1 last year? the performance
of the dollar and the performance in
international equities.
>> Well, there's a bit of deja vu all over
again, but um in the first quarter of
last year, we we had Deep Seek hit the
Magnificent 7 right from the get-go. And
uh so that was actually a sell-off. This
time around, um the Magnificent 7 seemed
to be kind of mixed uh but on balance,
they seem to be holding their own quite
quite well. And the NASDAQ has started
to outperform more recently. Yeah. After
the outperformance we saw previously in
small caps so far today that started to
fade.
>> It's it's kind of a bull market and
everything and so if something lags it
uh gets a chance to catch up.
>> How would you describe this regime that
we're in right now? We've heard a lot of
different things being thrown around
debasement trade sound America. But to
your point I'm just seeing record highs
all over the place metals in equities
worldwide bull market. Um and I think
that's because central banks across the
board have provided an enormous amount
amount of liquidity. We actually have
some liquidity probably left over from
the pandemic. Uh I mean there's what
over 7 trillion of uh money market
mutual funds. So um you know if if if
the Fed were to actually lower rates
that would probably continue to fuel
this bull market, but doesn't look like
it needs any any fuel from the Fed
because earnings have been phenomenal.
Just if you develop that a little bit
further, and this sort of builds on
something that John's been talking about
over the past couple of days. How much
is a sell-off in the dollar, a response
to the sort of global bull market? And
how much is it a response to debasement
based on concerns about Fed credibility
and being some policy uncertainty? I I
don't really get all that excited about
these general terms like debasement
because it was only what like a year and
a half ago that the economist was
running cover stories about the
exceptionalism of America and then all
of a sudden we're not exceptional
anymore. I think there's still a lot of
things that are exceptional about the US
but uh including the resilience of the
US economy in the face of all the shocks
but you know what the global economy has
held in the remarkably well also and I
think we are seeing people kind of take
note that emerging markets continue to
emerge as a matter of fact a global
index shows that more manufacturing
production now happens in emerging
economies than in developed economies
and more exports and so the you know we
aren't really debased It's not
debasement. It's not deglobalization.
It's kind of rebalancing rebalancing a
portfolio. So, as the stock market goes
up, people actually get more nervous
that they've never made so much money
and maybe it's going to take a dive. So,
they buy more gold because gold and and
um and stocks tend to be inversely
correlated, but on a trend basis, they
tend to go in the same direction.
>> It's rebalancing on a lot of different
levels. It's rebalancing when it comes
to the US versus the rest of the world.
It's also rebalancing with the
financialization of US markets and
global markets going into the physical
world, right? We're seeing the actual
capex continue to expand.
>> Does it seem plausible that we can
continue to see this uh expansion in
capex without inflation, especially
given some of the inputs from precious
metals and actual base metals?
>> Hate to tout my own brand here, but I've
been talking about the roaring 2020s
since August of 2020, and baby, it feels
like it, you know? I mean, come on.
Let's let's have fun here. And uh the
reality is it's it's not all
speculation. Uh it's productivity and
productivity is uh really what's driving
all this.
>> We're halfway through your year decade
end decade target for gold.
>> Do you think we actually get there
quicker the 10k mark? And do you need to
start rethinking about where you're
pricing?
>> I'm running to catch up. I mean when
when I've never had an opinion on gold.
I mean I'm a strategist. I I need
something to value. So, however, when it
crossed above 2,000 back in 2024, I
said, you know what, it's really pretty
simple. Uh, a lot of foreign central
bankers have decided to buy gold after
Russia invaded Ukraine and uh we we
froze their Russia's assets. So, gold
has been absolutely on fire since then.
So, when it got to 3,000 at the
beginning of last year, I said, let's
let's look at the charts, probably 4,000
by the end of the year, got to 45,00.
And I raised my target for this year
from 5,000 to 6,000 and we're going to
be at 6,000 by the end of the year or or
next week.
>> It feels speculative though at this
moment. It feels almost like it's
trading like a meme stock. Why is that?
>> Well, I think on a global basis, you
know, Bitcoin and gold have a lot in
common. It's hard to value them. It
could be zero, could be a million,
whatever you you want it to be. Uh but
in the case of gold, I think uh it's
it's in both both cases, it's a global
market. uh people are buying it 24 by7
and so I think there's um a lot of
geopolitical uncertainty. I mean we've
got a armada off the coast of uh Iran.
We're still got issues in Venezuela.
Meanwhile, there's been a purge of
generals in China and we don't know what
that entails. And so if there's a and
the president has brought back the
Monroe doctrine with a Trump corollary,
well, how about the Putin doctrine? How
about the Z doctrine? So I think there's
a lot of geopolitical risk
>> given everything you describe as pretty
impressive. Tens are still at 425, isn't
it? In the Treasury market,
>> it's been amazing. Um, you know, I'm
kind of wondering where the bond
vigilantes are. Oh, I know where they
are. They're in Japan.
>> They showed up last week, didn't they?
>> Yeah. But but you know what? I think
they're kind of getting frustrated
because they can't bring it down. They
can't cause a crisis. Uh, Japan may may
be impervious to a a bond vigilante
attack. So maybe they'll come back here.
But u look I think it goes back to the
dollar this is still a safe haven. So
you know as soon as people get scared
again about geopolitics I think you'll
see the dollar come back and the
administration first the president says
great the the the dollar's going down
and then Scott Besson his treasury
secretary says we we like a strong
dollar.
>> I just want to get to that point. You
still believe the dollar is the haven?
>> Absolutely. Absolutely. It's look people
have been saying oh the dollar is going
down. foreigners are are bailing out.
And then the Treasury has monthly data
through November showing that actually
over the past 12 months through
November, foreigners bought a record 700
billion dollars of US equities and a
near record of almost a trillion dollars
of fixed income securities. So the data
just doesn't add up with the myth that
uh everybody's bailing out of the
dollar.
>> Edi, if you had any research, it's going
to stick with us. I'm right there with
you, Ed. some of these narratives at the
moment overly simplistic I think and
failing to stand up to basic scrutiny
when you look at the basic data
>> there seems to be an incredible tension
right now between the sentiment that
people have towards some of these
policies and some of the rhetoric coming
out of the administration versus the
tech boom the energy and the consumer
and the growth that you're seeing in the
United States that leaves it as a place
so many investors feel like they need to
be exposed to
>> stocks very close to alltime highs on
the S&P 500 futures up by about a tenth
of 1% let's give an up on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara with more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. We're seeing Microsoft's shares
falling 6.6% in the pre-market. The
company saying [music] spending hit a
record while cloud growth slowed fueling
concerns over the payoff from its AI
[music] investments. Capex in the fiscal
second quarter hit almost $ 38 billion
up 66% [music]
from a year ago. On the flip side, Meta
shares are surging 8% in the pre-market.
the Facebook owner reporting fourth
quarter revenue [music] that topped
analyst estimates and gave a strong
forecast for the current period. The
company projecting record spending in
2026 driven [music] by CEO Mark
Zuckerberg's aggressive campaign to
amass AI infrastructure computing power
and talent
and the Fed holding rate steady marking
the first pause in its [music] cutting
cycle since July. The decision was
approved in a 10 to2 vote with governors
Christopher [music] Waller and Steven
Myron dissenting in favor of a 25 basis
point cut. [music] Waller's descent in
favor of a rate cut is seen as keeping
him in the race to replace Powell as
chair of [music] the Fed. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John,
>> hey Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara
later this hour in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program, dollar
whiplash. If we lost the uh the world
standard dollar, that would be like
losing a war, a major world war. Dollars
dollar's doing great. I could have it go
up or go down like a yo-yo.
>> And that's exactly what it has done in
the last 48 hours. Up next, Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall live from New York City
this morning. [music] Good morning.
>> [music]
>> Later this morning, 8:30 Eastern time,
jobless claims. Then in the mix [music]
after the closing bell, a big earnings
report. After the bell, after the market
close, we'll hear from Apple. [music]
Apple earnings a little bit later.
Equity futures doing okay on the S&P
500. Positive so far this morning on the
S&P by a tenth of 1% [music] on the
Nasdaq up by 0.15. In the FX market, the
volatility of the last few days. [music]
Euro dollar proving over the past few
days that life above 120 is difficult at
the moment. 11948. Just think about the
last two sessions we've had for the
euro. The worst day since August and the
best day since [music] August back to
back over the past two sessions.
>> Yeah. And on what? Right. Here's the
question. Is it because some incredible
data came out? No. Is it because of
something substantial that happened in
earnings? Nope. It has to do with
comments coming [music] out of the
president about uh being okay with a
weaker dollar and this real question of
why the knee-jerk reaction was so
extreme [music] right at a certain
point, especially if Scott Besson's
going to come back and do his thing. We
still have a strong dollar policy. Why
was there this whiplash [music] in
markets?
>> Euro dollar 11948 under Sylvanas this
morning. Dollar whiplash.
If we lost the uh the world standard
dollar, that would be like losing a war,
a major world war. We would not be the
same country any longer.
>> It's hard to explain to people. The
headline would go, "Oh, Trump wants a
weak dollar." Not a weak dollar.
>> Dollar's dollar's doing great. I could
have it go up or go down like a yo-yo.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
dollar trading near four-year lows
despite Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson's efforts to ease concerns about
the greenback. with the latest. Here's
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Hey, Tyler.
>> Yeah. Hey, John. Good morning. Well, as
you just mentioned, we heard from the US
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant
yesterday where he maintained that the
US always has a strong dollar policy. He
added that the administration's broader
agenda would help make the US the quote
best place to come in his words and said
that efforts by the administration to
bring down the deficit would contribute
to the dollar strength over time. The
thing is, our own analysts at Bloomberg
assess that the Treasury Secretary's
more measured response is unlikely to
alter the dollar's bearish trajectory.
And while we have heard competing views
from President Trump, as you just played
out there, our analysts also point to
the fact that he has long maintained
that a weaker currency could help drive
US exports and bolster those very
industries that he has been really
focused on, particularly domestic
manufacturing. Plus, we know that a lot
of issues are weighing on the currency,
driven in part by the unpredictable
policym here in Washington. Perhaps most
notably, we know tariffs have been a big
driver of the currency's weakness. And
we've just seen in the past month a
whole new slew of threats out of this
White House, from allies like South
Korea to even our NATO partners. Plus,
I'll just throw in the fact that it is
still unknown if we will avert a partial
government shutdown this weekend if
lawmakers are unable to reach a deal
when it comes to funding by Friday at
midnight. Though, John knew overnight. A
person familiar does tell us here at
Bloomberg News that Democrats and the
White House are inching closer to a
deal, but at this point, it's just too
soon to tell.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest down in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. The
Treasury Secretary engaging in the
conversation, the president engaging in
the conversation. and Chairman Pal
having absolutely nothing to do with it
in the news conference yesterday.
>> We don't control the currency. That's
not our business. That's the Treasury.
Don't don't look at us. I was actually a
little frustrated that there wasn't a
follow-up question. Well, if you do get
a weaker dollar, does that import more
inflation in a way that could
potentially be something that you would
have to address? At what point would you
actually have to entertain this as
something that you do take up because it
does have an economic factor? But, you
know, no comment and he got away with
it.
>> And that's the playbook when you
interview anyone at the ECB. The ECB is
engaging in the conversation for that
very reason. And Ed Yarden is with us
now of Yadeni Research. Ed, let's
continue that conversation. Does it have
consequences for the outlook for price
stability?
>> Absolutely. I mean, uh, a weaker dollar
does tend to be inflationary. And if the
administration or if the president is
saying basically saying on balance, I
mean, you have to kind of average all of
his comments, but on balance, I think he
does want a weaker dollar because he
wants more manufacturing in the United
States. So that that's already having an
impact on commodity prices. is commodity
prices obviously our leading indicator
of inflation. So if if you ask comm the
commodity markets not me what the
outlook for inflation is it's coming
back.
>> Financial conditions are easing
>> very easy.
>> The administration is going to boost
potentially more fiscal stimulus. We're
going to see that in tax refunds maybe
in the next couple of months. And then
you've got the dollar story on top of
that. And everyone's talking up a better
growth profile. Yet still not in the
consensus is this idea that inflation is
going to pick up. And I'm surprised by
that. Well, there there's a lot of
moving parts here. I I I think that
actually inflation is going to go down.
Doesn't mean that I'm going to be right.
It doesn't mean that is isn't going to
be a concern in the market about
inflation coming back. Uh but I I'm a
big believer in productivity. I think
the productivity story was awesome last
year and I think it's going to continue
to be surprisingly strong and
productivity is like fairy dust.
Everything's better. Better growth,
lower inflation, better real wages, and
better profit margin. Ed, to Jonathan's
point though, we are going to have a lot
of fiscal policies coming out of
Washington. Yeah. Not just the tax
refunds, but this is an election year.
The administration's going to run it
hot. So, why do you think inflation is
actually going to come down?
>> Well, the there are inflationary forces
like the the the weak dollar and the
fiscal stimulus that you mentioned. Uh
the fiscal stimulus obviously is one of
the reasons why the economy is so
strong. In addition, the consumers held
in there because the baby boomers are
retiring and spending a lot of money. So
the demand side of the economy looks
great and it's going to be even stronger
with the with the fiscal stimulus and
that could be inflationary certainly but
if you continue to have a relatively
quiet uh employment market then the
implication is that productivity is
extremely strong. So, I I would just say
with all the factors, all the moving
parts here, uh, and the yo-yo of arguing
it's going to inflation is going to go
up or it's going to go down, I'm I'm in
the camp that thinks that inflation is
going to be surprisingly low this year
because productivity is going to
continue to be surprisingly strong.
>> Tyler mentioned the fact that the
president just this week was talking
about increase in tariffs on South
Korea. Do you think the market has just
completely blown past that story and
it's no longer of interest almost? Yeah,
the the market has its own resilience.
You you know I I've been doing this for
a while and what I've learned over the
years is that the the the markets the
stock market and the US economy have
done remarkably well despite Washington
and uh and in the current uh situation I
think you have to keep your eye on the
prize and the prize is productivity is
creating tremendous resilience for the
US economy which in turn is creating
remarkable resilience for earnings and
earnings are at a record high and going
higher. The headline for my dinner
tonight with my children is productivity
is like fairy dust and then I'll say
discuss. I mean to me I guess that the
ultimate question is for who and you
just led to it which is earnings. It's
not necessarily for people who might be
uh losing their jobs and we've seen
announcements from Home Depot cutting
800 corporate jobs, Amazon cutting
16,000 corporate jobs. This has to do
with how people feel sentiment. It has
to do with politics. I mean how does
that factor in to how this goes? I I
think this is one of those uh kind of
historic uh transition environments
that's resulting from the technological
revolution, digital revolution. And uh
there are certainly people that are
losing their jobs because of the
improvements we're seeing in in
technology and that's obviously hurting.
But you know, it takes a couple of
years, but I think we're going to find
be amazed at how resilient American
workers are and they're going to
reinvent themselves. One of the things
that just astounding to me is that we
had over five million business
applications, new business applications
last year, all-time record high. So, I
think a lot of people are saying, you
know what, I'm not I'm not going to try
to get a job in a company. I'm going to
start my own business.
>> Right now, looking at this backdrop, why
would anyone want to invest in debt over
equity? Because it is a growth picture
that is being juiced on all fronts for
the equity picture. on the debt picture.
They're only going to incur more debt to
try to ameliorate some of the concerns
in the average population that do not
feel these gains, the fairy dust.
>> Well, well, it's it's really I go goes
to our previous conversation about
rebalancing as the stock market goes
higher and higher as gold goes higher
and higher. People are enjoying that are
in there are enjoying the gains. But on
the other hand, they get a little bit
queasy about, you know, getting too
close to the sun like Icarus. His wings
kind of melt melted off. So they tend to
start to to rebalance and so they will
rebalance. I mean why are we have a
record amount of money in money market
mutual funds. A lot of people are
missing a great rally in gold and in
stocks. Well maybe not. Maybe they are
enjoying those rallies but they also say
you know what I got to have some
liquidity here uh just in case things
don't go well.
>> Bridgewater by the way agrees with you.
Stocks over bonds.
>> I think a lot of people agree with us.
We've been talking about that for a
while and people are saying in this
progrowth environment, why would you
want to own the thing that people are
only going to issue more of and then
it's getting less valuable and that
ultimately seems to be a good thing out.
>> Yeah, AI is covering a lot of cracks.
Let's put it that way. Amarie talked
about the threat of tariffs on South
Korea. The Cosby this week is up by
almost 5% and is up by 24% year to date.
>> Thank you, Samsung.
>> Massive, massive movement. One other
name in the mix as well. Just feels like
that's the story of the moment. My big
takea away from the Fed program
yesterday was Diane Swank, KPMG. She's
talking up an economic boom that could
come with a payroll recession. Just
think about that. How do you set policy
for that? An economic boom with a
payroll recession.
>> I mean, the initial claims data looks
great. I mean, initial claims have been
coming down. So, layoffs are actually
going down. May maybe the Amazon news is
going to affect it uh in the week ahead.
But Amazon, I think, is talking about
global employment. It's not like all
those 16,000 jobs are necessarily going
to be lost right here in the United
States. Um, so I I think that u we I I
think the payroll situation is going to
be surprising to the upside.
>> I hope you're right, Edardenni. If yani
research, this is a week where we're
talking up growth north of four maybe 5%
and yet consumer confidence is rock
bottom. It has never been lower in the
last decade.
>> And this has to do with the fact that
people are not feeling it yet. and
they're seeing the layoffs, they're
seeing the inflationary impacts, the
year-over-year, the 5year over fiveyear
in impacts, and it's uh weighing on
them. How do you set policy? You asked
this question. No comment. I don't have
anything for you on that. Not going to
really go there. Look at my statement
from last month. I know there's an
industry in criticizing the Federal
Reserve, but given the president's
comments, the chairman's [music]
comments a few weekends ago, he took on
the White House in a way we've never
[music] seen before in the modern
history of the Federal Reserve and
wasn't prepared to answer some basic
questions about why. And I think we need
to follow up on that.
>> I think he will be continued to ask
[music] that question. Let's see when he
has a follow-up.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Angelo Zeno of CFRA as Meta and
Microsoft ramp up AI spending.
>> [music]
>> snapping a streak of five days without
losses on the S&P 500 yesterday with the
smallest [music] the smallest of losses
in yesterday's session. Futures bounced
back by a tenth of 1%. [music] The rally
continues on the Nasdaq. Six consecutive
days of gains on the NASDAQ 100, the
longest winning streak [music] going
back to September. for the year. So far,
some outperformance for the Russell, the
small caps, that outperformance
beginning to fade over the past few
sessions. Let's keep an eye on that.
This morning, some outperformance on the
day up a third of 1%. [music]
Let's send to the bond market. Bit of a
snooze in the bond market right now.
Twos, 10, 30s, 10's at the upper end of
the range for the year so far. 42512 and
twos anchored around [music] Fed policy.
That Fed is going nowhere anytime soon.
356.93
on [music] twos. And in precious metals,
this move right here, gold absolutely
flying year to date. [music] Gold up
another 2%.
>> Honestly, it just raises this question
of how vulnerable is this trade? And I
know I'm sort of uh going against the
grain here, but at a certain point,
liquidity starts getting really thin.
And then if two people over in Asia buy
gold, suddenly that kicks up the price
significantly. So you start to wonder
how sustainable this is if institutions
are pulling back to some [music] degree
from some of the daily trade. What's
hilarious is these year-end price
targets. We've already gone through
Goldman [music]
just at the start of the week changed
their year-end target to 5,400. Now
we're past that. So, I think they need
to recalibrate where they see [music]
this precious metal.
>> So, you've all heard that story about
the debasement trade, South America, all
of that stuff. We talked about this over
the past few days. This is also pretty
consistent with a pick [music] up in
global risk appetite. You see that in
copper trading close to record highs.
You see that in the Cosby [music] with
an AI twist. South Korean equities
record highs up by more than 20% year to
date. You see in foreign exchange the
Aussie outperforming at G10 over the
[music] past 12 months. Caterpillar just
dropping earnings. EPS coming in at 516
the estimate 469 revenue for the fourth
quarter in at 19.13 [music]
billion. The estimate 17.91.
That is an upside surprise.
>> And you're seeing the shares jump some
5% [music] uh in response to that. Their
machine power and energy revenue also
coming in almost 20% year-over-year.
When you start talking about this, the
physical world is having its revenge.
And what you're seeing is people right
sizing their understandings of how much
more equities have to rise to match that
in bond [music] markets. They've been
punched across the face with so many
different headlines that they're just in
a stuper of malaise. I mean honestly the
move index is going nowhere. So the
excitement is really in equities. The
excitement is in the real world. It's
not necessarily [music] in the debt
problem.
>> We have some problems in the real world.
There is no doubt about that. But it's
being insulated by some massive spending
taking place [music] at the moment. and
Caterpillar is up by more than 5% in the
pre-market. As we count you down to the
opening bell, let's get you some more
single names, some morning movers.
Yahara [music] has more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Well, we have some clear
winners and losers in the tech trade
this morning. And we start with [music]
Meta. The clear winner up 8% in the
pre-market as it gets a pass to ramp up
spending uh wrap up Cap X uh up to 135
billion worth this [music] year because
the payoff is already starting to show
up. On the call, executives were
pointing out how ad targeting is getting
stronger. [music]
Meanwhile, Microsoft not getting the
same pass. Shares are down nearly 7% in
the pre-market because uh it's facing
scrutiny for its record capex since
[music] Azure did slow uh it did slow
from the prior quarter. Meanwhile, that
capex spending spree isn't just
affecting tech stocks. [music] It's also
causing a metals boom. We are seeing
shares of Freeport Macarin up 4.6% 6%
and Southern Copper up 4%. And moving on
to SAP, [music] the German company,
those shares are plummeting down nearly
15% after missing expectations on its
cloud backlog. And the timing really
matters here since software stocks have
been struggling as investors worry that
AI is [music] upending their business
model. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yhara in just a moment. On our
radar this morning, talks to avert
[music] a government shutdown gaining
momentum ahead of today's vote in the
Senate. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg, the Trump administration is
moving closer to Democrats demands over
homeland security funding. Elsewhere,
Nvidia, Microsoft, Amazon reportedly
discussing plans to pour billions into
open AI. According to the information,
these investments are part of a massive
funding round which could value the Chat
GBT maker at over $750
billion. And finally, Tesla
discontinuing its Model S and Model X
EVs, clearing factory space to build
humanoid robots. This coming as part of
a 20 billion AI push that includes a $2
billion investment in Elon Musk's X AI
startup.
>> This to me is actually really important.
This marks, as one analyst was saying,
the transformation of Tesla from an EV
maker into a robo taxi, robot, and
electronics company. And I think that's
really important along with their
announcement that they're looking to
build a fab uh factory. They need to
create more of some of these chips to
really go into a lot of their different
products. Look, this is the future. He's
talked about this. People are not
talking about the fact they actually
beat expectations. This isn't to try to
mask some sort of underlying weaker
performance than expected. This is sort
of the hopes and dreams of the next
phase after the EV industry has faced a
lot of issues and a lot of competitive
>> and when it comes to the chipmaking he
wants to do it here in the United
States. You talk about the physical
world that is the buildout everyone is
pretty much why you see these valuations
so high and everyone pouring into the
stock market. It's the physical buildout
all these companies are talking about
Steve Man analyst on this was talking
about everything they've almost wanted
and have heard about for years from
Tesla is they're finally seeing it on
paper and they're finally seeing it to
come to fruition. So for Elon Musk when
it comes to robots, autonomous, they
actually see the next chapter beginning
when for a while it was very much maybe
next summer, maybe next summer. It's now
real.
>> Do you think they can find a partner in
the White House?
>> Yes, I think so. I think they can. I
think that they're not bros anymore, you
know, but I wouldn't say they're
enemies. I think they've hatched things
up.
>> Tesla right now up by about 2.8% of the
pre-market. Let's stick with tech. Meta,
Microsoft reaffirming commitments to
record AI spending. Wall Street
rewarding one tech giant punishing the
other. Angelo Zeno of CFRA has a buy
rating on Meta and a strong buy on
Microsoft. Angelo joins us right now for
more. Angelo, a lot of spending, two
very very different looking price moves
in the pre-market. What explains the
difference between Meta and Microsoft?
>> Yeah, John. So, I I would say, you know,
first off, we're not we're not surprised
by the higher than expected spending
from these companies. I think most
anticipated uh that going into the print
here. I'd say Meta's spending definitely
more even more than we anticipated. But
that being said, you know, at this point
in time, you're looking at um a guidance
of essentially 30% topline growth here
for Q1 and and that really is what
explains it, right? um this is some a
case where it seems like Wall Street is
is willing to bid your stock higher if
you're showing the the topline growth
and it's really phenomenal in terms of
um the type of growth you are seeing at
Meta at this point in time and really
kind of demonstrates the fact that hey
listen maybe all these uh investments
that Zuckerberg has made here over the
last year is starting to to pay off. I
think Zuckerberg in many respects is
treating his company um like a startup
pumping a ton of money into it. You're
looking at capital intensity ratio now
closer to about 45 to 50% in 2026. So
we've got some enormous spend going on
here. We'll see what the products look
like as as they trickle through 2026.
But as we kind of look at the the
performance here, at least for today,
the street likes what they say.
>> A$ 1.6 trillion startup. It's not bad,
is it, Angelo? I want to talk about
Microsoft. Sometimes sentiment is just
shaken and there's a dark cloud that
hangs over a stock and an ecosystem.
Software names at the moment, Angelo, to
Yhara's point are struggling. What's
behind it?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I mean, and when you look at at
Microsoft, right, they are the the king
of the, you know, the enterprise king of
software in many respects, but whether
it be a Service Now that reported last
night and SAP um and others that are
probably going to report this earning
season and and just the numbers we've
seen over the last couple of weeks. Um
there's just a dark cloud over the the
SAS space and um you know, as far as
what we've seen from Microsoft posting
the December quarter results, the March
quarter guide, it was very solid in
nature. And if there's a company that
could navigate some of the uncertainties
that are out there and where you know
the enterprise space should continue to
buy um their offerings, it should be on
Microsoft's side of things. Right? So um
we do think that Microsoft is is well
positioned to navigate some of the
uncertainties, the low visibility across
the SAS space here over the next couple
of years. But nonetheless, that's just
the narrative that's going on right now.
Um and you know there are other uh
negatives I think from the print here in
the December quarter whether it be the
higher open AI concentration risk
whether it be um the lower expected uh
you know cloud gross margin guide for
the March quarter. I think some of that
also seeping into the the negative
reaction you're seeing from Microsoft.
>> Angela, let's dig into both of those
things. This question around just the
cloud computing uh growth and the pace
seem to miss some of the more lofty
estimates and the dependence on open AI.
There was one stat for the first time
Microsoft disclosed that 45% of a $625
billion book of future cloud contracts
was from open AI. How much of a concern
is this to you? This concentration risk
in the likes of Microsoft?
>> Yeah, I mean I think it's something
you've got to be mindful of, but you
know, in the same respect their their
nonopen AI um RPO is still growing at a
fairly healthy clip. I think about 28%
or so in the quarter. Um it's going to
be lumpy here over the next couple of
years. I do think that 45% figure um you
know while large in nature likely comes
down um here over the next couple of
years. So yeah, I mean on the surface
it's concerning. I don't think it's as
concerning as you know a a a
type of situation. You know clearly the
fact that you know the Microsoft um if
they don't get it from OpenAI here over
the next couple years should see it from
other enterprise related vendors. But
nonetheless, yes, I mean on the surface
here, the narrative again is one where
um the street is very concerned about
open AI at this point in time. I do
think that funding round will probably
help the narrative um in terms of the
the cohort of names tied to uh open AI
like a Microsoft. So again, we'll we
have to wait and see. With respect to
the Azour uh side of things and the
cloud uh computing, how much is this an
issue that Microsoft just can't meet the
incredible demand as quickly as some
people would have hoped and how much is
this truly competition from uh Alphabet
or from the likes of Amazon that both
report next week.
>> You know, I personally think it's more
the supply constraints. I mean, it did
they did highlight the fact that hey,
listen, they could have grown their
numbers north of 40% if they had the
supply. So um you know so I do think it
is more supply constrained in nature but
you know in the same respects this is a
company that's going to see also much
more difficult comparisons on the Azure
side of things over the next couple of
quarters. Um you know two quarters from
now you're going to have to lap numbers
like 39% year-over-year growth. So um I
would expect the numbers to potentially
even decelerate further. Let's call it
into the mid30s uh range as we kind of
progress through the year. But
nonetheless, I mean, these are still
pretty phenomenal uh type of growth
numbers from Azure. And in in fact, it
actually ended up being our beating our
expectations.
>> Just taking a step back, what caught my
eye overnight was Jensen Wong talking
about how we don't have the energy
potentially there's going to be
constraints in Taiwan when it comes to
chipmates
and into Europe. Are these capex numbers
so big that actually the energy demand,
the physicality of building it out
doesn't actually work yet?
>> I mean, well, we we've got to see. I
mean, at this point in time, you know,
energy bottlenecks are clearly a risk
out there. I mean, I I'd say personally
at at this point in time, the street is
probably more concerned about some of
the memory bottlenecks. Um and to you
know to be honest I mean when you start
thinking about the higher planned capex
blend it probably takes into account
some of the um the higher boost in
memory uh in memory prices as well. But
as far as you know the the energy
bottlenecks are concerned it's it's
going to get lumpy in nature here. Um
they're going to be more challenges and
certainties. Um I think that's going to
be more of a 2022 second half of 2027
event and thereafter but nonetheless
definitely something to be mindful of.
Just as a market analyst and a market
participant, Angela, you've witnessed
markets for a long time. If we can get
away from these names just for a moment.
I think Lisa is doing a great job this
morning of talking about the constraints
in the physical world. Do you think
that's the trade so far of the year that
people are just chasing that story cross
asset? I
>> I mean, it seems to be um you know, I I
definitely think there's um you know,
there's definitely something to be said
about that. um you know you kind of look
at really where the nar narrative is
across the tech ecosystem, right? It
continues to be a pile up in a number of
these um chip related type of names that
would benefit from that physical AI
world um as well as hardware related
names as well. So um yeah may not be as
exposed you know to some of the
constraints tied to memory but
nonetheless I mean you kind of look at
at the play here at least across the
tech ecosystem and it would support that
uh thesis here and I don't know if it
lets up here you know in the near term
you'll definitely get some choppiness
but over the next three to five years um
you know when you start thinking about
the shift toward AI world um it is going
to be dictated more on the physical AI
um opportunities where there's also you
know greater
uncertainties tied to this, you know,
SAS oriented trade and and and we've
kind of seen this accelerated shift away
from SHA SAS to kind of the the more,
you know, chipm related names here even
over the last couple of weeks.
>> Angela, good to see you. Angela Zena
there of CFA Caterpillar a little bit
earlier on this morning. Great numbers
about 15 minutes ago. Copper on my
commodity screen on the terminal right
now. Copper up by 6%. These moves are
just popping up all over the place
>> and it just shows that the race to
achieve the enough capacity to really
meet demand is the main constraint for
so many of these Apple after the bell
today. How much is the focus going to be
on how much more they're having to pay
for some of the chips that go into their
smartphones and how that's eating into
margins as they try to keep prices
within a range. It is the physical world
that keeps coming back and biting a lot
of different companies.
>> That's the next big earnings report
after the closing bell. Elsewhere, let's
get you an update on stories worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara
with more. Oh, hey Yhara.
>> Hi, John. UK Prime Minister Kier Starmer
calling for a more sophisticated
relationship after a [music] meeting
with China's President Xiinping.
Starmer's visit to Beijing marks the
first of its kind in 8 years. She adding
China will [music] consider giving UK
citizens visa-free entry in a sign of
thawing relationships between [music]
the two countries. Starmer is scheduled
to travel to Tokyo before returning to
the UK.
Meanwhile, Deutsche Bank reporting a
record profit for the year with higher
trading income and a [music] new share
buyback. The results though are being
overshadowed by a raid on the bank's
headquarters. It's part of a money
laundering probe looking at past
dealings by staff [music] with firms
linked to Roman Abramovich. Georgia bank
says it is cooper cooperating fully with
[music] the investigation.
And you mentioned this, Caterpillar
shares are up 3.8% after delivering an
earnings beats [music] for the fourth
quarter. The construction manufacturer
reporting a revenue beat with more than
$19 billion. That's a [music] 18%
year-over-year increase. The company's
CEO saying, quote, "These results
demonstrate the strength of our end
markets and [music] our disciplined
execution." That's your brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thank you very much.
Up next, risk coming into [music]
balance.
>> In the labor market, indicators suggest
that conditions may be stabilizing. I
think that the upside risks to inflation
and the downside risks to risks to have
probably both diminished a bit. We'll
find our way forward as the data evolve.
That conversation up next with Claudia
Assam of New Century Advisers live from
New York City. You're watching Bloomberg
[music] TV.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Two mega cap tech names to look at in
the pre-market. Meta and Microsoft both
putting up massive [music] spending
numbers, but one impressing more with
actual growth relative to expectations.
Guess which one? Meta up by 8%.
Microsoft down by more than seven. If
you push this into the equity market at
the index level, equity futures doing
okay, up by 210 [music] of 1%. The
NASDAQ just about positive up by 0.16.
That was the headline yesterday. It was
after the closing bot. It was not the
Federal Reserve. Under Sylvanas this
morning, risk coming into balance. In
the labor market, indicators [music]
suggest that conditions may be
stabilizing. I think that the upside
risks to inflation and the downside
risks to risk probably both diminished a
bit. It's about how you weigh uh the
risks to the two goals and and and how
big those and quantify them. And [music]
so there are different views on the
committee and you know we'll find our
way forward as the data evolve.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
Federal Reserve hitting pause on rate
cuts for the first time since July
pointing to a steadying labor market and
improving economy. Claudia S of New
Century Advisers writing there are
reasons to be cautiously optimistic
about the labor market, reduced rates,
fiscal support and solid consumer
spending. Claudia joins us now for more.
Claudia, it was the least anticipated
Fed meeting in quite a while. In that
regard, Chairman Pow did not disappoint.
It was an absolute snoozer. Claudia,
they seem to have this confidence in the
outlook, a better outlook. How much
weight should they put on recent data?
>> Right. Well, I think there was a
cautious optimism, right? The there was
a a path forward where there's
stabilization in the labor market that
had been what had motivated the cuts
before concerns about the labor market.
So, there are some signs. Didn't want to
overplay it, but some signs. and Pal did
sketch out a path for inflation to start
turning back down, but there wasn't
full conviction, right? There wasn't,
you know, enough conviction in that
outlook to actually see cuts. They're
still going to want to wait and see the
data, but but Pal is painting the
picture of further progress on
inflation, further potential cuts in
rates, just not yet. Claudia, there was
an element of that meme where there is
someone sitting in in a room saying
everything is fine and there's burning
all around them. This question of all
the questions that he wouldn't answer
going forward. I mean, can a Fed give
forward guidance if there isn't a sense
of who is going to be the next Fed chair
and what some of the response are to
some of these pretty significant
questions that were asked about Fed
independence, about the dollar, about a
lot of other issues that were I have no
comment. I've got nothing for you for
that.
>> Right. So, in terms of the questions
about, you know, the the investigation
from Department of Justice, the Supreme
Court hearing on Lisa Cook, like those
are questions the Fed will be answering.
So, I think we should remember the press
conference is really a window into the
two days of deliberations about the
monetary policy decision. He really
needed to keep it to the economics
because that's what they talked about
for two days. Soon Pal will be going to
Congress for his semianual Humphrey
Hawkins hearings. And that is absolutely
the appropriate place to be answering
these questions about politics. Pal even
gave a hint to it in very Fed speak
where he said, you know, Congress is the
window to de democratic accountability
for the Fed. That's where the Fed goes
and has to answer those tough questions.
So, we're going to hear more on that.
It's just trying to get, you know, the
timing right and the form right.
yesterday was really for him to speak
for the committee on these deliberations
and I think he did a good job on that
but you know the politics are there and
he's they're going to have to address
this more fully.
>> There was another issue another aspect
of this press conference and frankly the
decision more importantly and that is
one of the descents there were two
descents one of them was Chris Waller uh
the Fed governor who is in contention to
be the next Fed chair. Did you see this
as a more political type of disscent or
one that actually did come with
consistency in terms of some of the
rationale on previous decisions?
>> So, I expect that we'll hear from
Governor Waller for his thinking on on
his descent, but it does fit a pattern.
Waller was early to sound alarms about
the labor market. He may be late to
saying all's clear or signs are clear. I
think it would be very consistent for
him to still have concerns about, you
know, how much stabilization really is
there in the labor market. Uh, and
concerns on that front and also this
piece about the inflation outlook. I
mean, Waller is a forecaster to the
core. He may have more conviction that
those tariffs, you know, we've seen the
tariff rates that are there. We're going
to have a textbook case of them rolling
off and he feels like it's an it's worth
going ahead and pulling some more
restriction out of the economy. So I
think there's a clear economic case that
is consistent with not just Waller of
the past year when he has been in
potential running for Fed chair, but
really Waller over his whole career. So
I would really be hesitant to jump to
the politics in this moment.
>> This is consistent, but to the same time
he is in the running to be a Fed chair
and we immediately saw his chances spike
up because of that. Do you think because
he did descent that actually his chances
are in fact better today than they were
24 hours ago?
I have no insights on who [laughter]
will be the next Fed chair. I mean
really I that's no I don't I mean the
market the you know prediction market
response that makes a lot of sense and
yes you know he's pushing for cuts but
you know it's this has been a really
complicated process. The president
clearly has you know struggled to kind
of come up with the person that he wants
to see in that Fed chair position. I
think you know big picture we should
step back. Yesterday it was a 102 vote
in terms of pausing. the Fed chair is
not the swing vote on the committee,
right? Whoever goes into that position,
there would have been a pause yesterday.
So, I think, you know, I understand the
the speculation and and maybe it did
help Waller's odds yesterday, but I just
we want a Fed that's focused on the
economic conditions and making its
decisions and pulling the politics into
it any more than is absolutely
necessary. It's just it's a really risky
path for us to go down.
>> Claudia S of New Centry Advisors.
Claudia, thank you. appreciate your
words of confidence in the governor,
Chris Waller. He has such an extensive,
deep, credible body of work that he
deserves the benefit of the doubt. If he
wasn't in the race, would he still vote
for this rate cut based on recent
communication? Probably. Based on the
interviews we've had with him, likely.
He's worried about this labor market.
And guess what? Consumers are too.
They're telling you in a recent survey.
>> Yeah. And he's been saying you've got to
follow what they're doing. And you start
to look at some of the job cut
announcements and that would seem to
fortify it. The bigger question is why
didn't Stephen Myron go for 50 basis
points because that seems to be his
[laughter] this modus apparandis. I mean
that honestly sort of interesting. Maybe
he's out of the race.
>> I also thought of that. But Neil Dais
says this does keep Waller's chances
alive in the Apprentice Fed [music]
edition.
>> I'm sure it does. And we get another how
many episodes?
>> Multiple, I think.
>> Right. [music]
>> Yeah.
>> Maybe a few more seasons.
>> Yeah, true.
>> This is going on for weeks and weeks,
months and months.
>> Tom Becker of Black Rockck joins us
next. Janette Lo strategist,
Christristen [music] of Abacor, Matt
Hornback of Morgan Stanley. The second
hour of Bloomberg surveillance just
around the corner.
>> This is going to be, as we all know, a
really interesting week for tech.
>> It's more about tech than it ever has
been.
>> Investors are starting to demand a
little bit more. Anytime you have a
technology shift, you're going to have
big winners and big losers.
>> The big question is, can we still see
the degree of margin expansion [music]
out of the tech names?
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An [music] Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now.
Your price action looks like this. The
rally resumes. [music] Equities on the
S&P up by 210 of 1% on the S&P 500.
Likewise on the NASDAQ 100 up by 0.2
later a big afternoon for the NASDAQ and
big tech. Apple [music] reporting after
the closing bell later on this morning
about 90 minutes away another read on
the labor market. Jobless claims in
focus at a time where Herman Pal is
encouraged by the recent data.
>> Honestly, what will jobless claims
actually mean at a time where we might
see a low firing rate but the hiring
rate is so low. There has been an
absolute uh some knowledge in the
jobless claims. It has remained around
200,000 for a long time. A real question
of what kind of signal comes from this
at a [music] time where the labor market
is not cohering with the growth profile
that we're seeing in this country. I
mean really that is one of the key
conundrums and features [music] of this
particular growth picture.
>> GDP skyh high payrolls growth super
super low, rock bottom. There are
reasons for that on the supply side.
We've talked about them extensively. But
there is something else going on here.
Attitudes to the labor market are pretty
negative right now. If you survey
consumers, I keep going back to the
words of Diane Swank of KPMG just
yesterday. Dan Swank is talking up the
prospect of an economic boom with a jobs
recession. Now, to get philosophical,
what is an economic boom if there is a
jobs [music] recession?
>> It means Home Depot is cutting 800 jobs.
It means Amazon is cutting 16,000 jobs
as they look for efficiency and try to
shift into other things. Productivity is
a fairy dust. That's what we heard uh
just earlier from Eddie Ardeni. A fairy
dust for who? for profitability, not for
sentiment, for people who are concerned
about what [music] their future looks
like.
>> We're just insulated, flattered by
massive spending coming from some of the
biggest companies on the planet right
now. We saw the capex figures yesterday.
You see it in copper this morning up 6%.
You see it in the numbers from
Caterpillar, upside upside surprise.
You're seeing it everywhere at the
moment.
>> There were uh decades where rates were
around zero and it was a [music]
financialization of the world. This is
the revenge of the physical world in
every which way. capex, [music]
metals, everything. You need to actually
create a world that can match some of
the hopes and dreams that are coming
from the AI [music] space and
technology. Question is, what does that
look like in terms of inflation? What
does that look like [music] in terms of
jobs growth? And what does that look
like in terms of some of the financial
instruments that are funding it,
including, for example, [music] debt?
And also, you have Tesla coming out
saying they want to make a domestic
fabricator. They want to make chips
inside the United States overnight.
Jensen Wong is in Taiwan. [music] He's
talking about the fact that actually
what we're trying to do there is not
enough energy for it right now. Not in
the United States, not in Taiwan,
[music]
not in Europe. Maybe in China because
they have been hoarding minerals and
energy for decades, but in the rest of
the world, this is going to be a real
constraint, a real problem.
>> Speaking of energy, there is a big rally
developing in crude so far this week.
Kind of under the radar and not talked
about much. Guy Johnson out of London
doing a fantastic job early on this
morning going through some of the moves.
I think up 6% [music] so far on Brent
and WTI. Yes, there's an Iran story
here, but there are consequences with
Brent back to 70 and WTI up to [music]
close to 65 on my screen.
>> Yeah, some of the highest levels that
we've seen since last September as that
Armada gets closer to Iran and there's
this question about what kind of
disruption there could be. This is sort
of the one aspect of this whole upswing
that we've seen in growth. It has come
on the heels of lower gas prices. If
that changes, [music] how much does that
potentially eat into some of the
narrative? And lower gas prices are
certainly needed right now for this
[music] economy. Especially when you
look at the conference board, how
individuals are struggling still, they
say, with everyday goods and prices
[music] and electricity prices,
especially in this cold front are so
much higher. At the minimum, you need
that [music] lower gasoline prices. And
right now with Brent ticking a little
bit higher, that's going to make that
story a lot more challenging.
>> And we've said this a few times, tax
refunds, stimulus, stimulus for the
utility companies. We're going to pay
some big bills in the next few months,
>> which is the reason why there's an
increasing focus in getting some of the
AI companies to pay them. But yeah, if
you look at energy prices and how much
they've increased when it comes to
electricity, and I'm telling you right
now, kids are cranking the heat and I am
not pleased about it.
>> Yes, you sound like you sound like my
dad. When you leave, you turn the
thermostat down.
>> You have to turn it down.
>> Even though you leave the kids there 60,
>> I think it helps people sleep better.
[music]
>> My goodness. Okay. All right. Coming up
on the program.
>> It's brutal. Tom Becker of Black Rockck
as big tech fuels the equity rally.
Janette L strategus as Democrats demand
an ICE overhaul and Chris Nagawa of
Everor as Chow insists Fed independence
is intact. We begin this hour as the
stock rally resumes as big tech ramps up
spending. Tom Becker of Black Rockck
writing the finance literature is
replete with historical episodes of
capex overinvestment. We are neutral
directional stocks with reduced exposure
to US equities. Tom joins us now for
more. Tom, good morning.
>> Morning John.
>> Is that what this is? a massive
overinvestment spree.
>> Uh, some of it is gonna likely be
overinvestment. I I think a lot of it is
is very valid investment. So, the the
great power rivalry that's happening
separate from the the AI buildout. Um,
you've got multiple companies that are
competing to kind of be the the next
winner of the AI race. So, they're all
building kind of the supply that they
need. Uh and if it's a duopoly or a
monopoly in the end and you have five
companies, six companies globally all
investing to kind of be the winner, you
can potentially have a s a setup in a
few years where it's sort of like global
crossing where you build all this
capacity and all of a sudden, you know,
the price of the capacity drops. That's
great for society. It's great for the
economy. Um but we I think we're we're
kind of still early innings in in in
that investment cycle.
>> What do you think the stock market
opportunity is right now? Uh so we're
we're neutral on directional stocks. We
we think the dispersion is is much more
interesting. What you were just talking
about kind of energy prices flat, chips
up a lot, uh metals up a lot, you've got
countries year-to- date, you know,
Korea's up 25%, Germany's flat. So the
dispersion that we're seeing in
cross-country equities as kind of these
terms of trade shocks, as these
competitiveness shocks, as the tariffs
kind of bite for some of the companies
that are trying to export and don't have
a leg up anymore, we think that's where
we can really kind of add value to
portfolios is sort of playing for the
winners versus the losers. I want to dig
into this idea that you were just
talking about how it's sort of this
overbuild or at least building very
quickly, trying to pay whatever you need
to pay in order to get capacity to meet
demand. Who do you think is most
susceptible to overpaying in the short
term for something that will become
increasingly commoditized in the long
end? Is it the hyperscalers? Is it
someone of the other potential tech
players?
>> I think it's it's super unclear how it
shakes out. Um you know typically Jensen
said you know the cost of of the compute
keeps coming down uh the demand for it
keeps rising as kind of companies look
for new ways to deploy it. Uh but then
there's the parallel set of investments
related to to kind of the NATO expansion
uh US versus China. You you've got you
know real capex going in the ground for
factories but also for rearmament for
kind of duplication of different
countries that you know felt like maybe
they had an alliance that was a certain
way and now they want to have their own
means of production. And so I think all
of it um is going to play out over
multiple years. And so we're still the
the capex is what's driving the cyclical
growth. Um and like you were talking
about, you know, the consumer may not be
happy with the high prices, but they're
still spending. And I I I think the the
companies are still going to be
competing to win. And so it's that it's
the competitive spirits, I think, across
countries and and um across companies
that's going to, you know, propel
growth.
>> How do you identify winners in terms of
regions? Do you just follow government
spending? Do you follow uh you know in
terms of what kind of stimulus each
government wants to provide to their
sector?
>> Yeah, I mean so 10 years ago we were in
a monetary dominated environment and so
you really cared about what every
central banker was about to say and you
know rate differentials at the front end
were what it was all about. It really is
the the amount of fiscal insights that
we've added to portfolios in the last
five years is it's been the whole
research agenda has been understanding
where are the deficits going to rise,
where are the countries going to term it
out versus issue at the front end. Uh
where is the spending have a higher
multiplier versus a lower multiplier. So
tax cuts, you know, some of the OBBA is
is going to go to consumers. That's a
pretty high multiplier. Uh the corporate
tax cuts are a lower multiplier. So one
is going to be more the financialization
you were talking about Anorie and the
other is going to be kind of another
stimulus and injection into the economy.
Similarly in Germany like it took them a
really long time to kind of ramp up you
know it's like you know a year on and
now they're finally like saying okay you
can spend some money on this but it's
coming and so last year was a bit of a a
fiscal pullback and this year you've got
kind of a coordinated developed market
uh fiscal thrust Japan with the cor with
with kind of the consumer tax cut.
there's just a lot of fiscal coming back
into the system when growth is
accelerating
>> and at the same time the dollar is
weaker. Has that changed how you're
thinking about where you should be
allocating money?
>> We've been underweight dollars for a
couple years. We we think kind of the
the global rebalancing that's coming uh
with kind of some of the changes in in
trade balances. So under the old system,
everybody was kind of trying to keep
their exchange rates undervalued and and
sell their exports to the US consumer
kind of the you know the consumer of
last resort and they wouldn't recycle
their revenue back into their own
currency. So they're all keeping their
currencies low, keeping their financial
assets in the US. We think the
incentives here with US hedged yields
being really unattractive to foreigners,
uh other yield curves being really steep
and attractive, you know, in Japan, why
would you buy a hedge treasury? You can
just invest in a a dislocated, you know,
20 or 30year government bond. Uh same
thing in Europe. And so we think some of
the pullback of kind of that that old
order of kind of recycling surpluses
back into US financial assets that's
just going to moderate and that's going
to be kind of uh pressure on the dollar
to just equiliiberate lower.
>> And I'm guessing you didn't hear
anything from the president that made
you think that he's going to come out
and get in the way.
>> I I I I think so you heard something
from Jay Powell yesterday which is uh
Treasury Treasury.
>> I think we heard nothing from
>> the first four or five questions you
[laughter] heard nothing uh and then he
got going. But uh I do
>> sort of sort of is boring. [laughter]
>> Um I I do think uh kind of where where
the dollar settles for for kind of US
competitiveness is is really first
order. Um and so you know tariffs are
part of the agenda but a weaker dollar
is also part of the agenda. I think
>> I know this is exhausting but when was
the last time markets were this
interesting?
>> It's super interesting because the
dispersion is very domestically
oriented. Kind of that fiscal question
countries are are trying. It's the
Carney speech, right? So, you've got
countries trying to decide how am I
going to navigate this? I'm going to
change some of my domestic policies. I'm
going to make some alliances. I'm going
to make some trade deals. Uh you've got
kind of, you know, corporate champions
that are they're being played by
different countries to try to kind of
bolster their domestic outlook. And so,
I I do think the dispersion is is really
much higher.
>> The character of financial markets has
changed as well. I'm finding it
absolutely fascinating. These used to be
cyclical bow weathers things like
Caterpillar, Copper, the Cosby, South
Korean equities. Now they're secular
stories and it's really confusing. You
know, payrolls used to be a fantastic
macro indicator that influenced people's
views on how the equity market would
trade. Hopeless in the last 12 months.
It's driving the Fed sure hasn't really
driven equities at all.
>> If you just take that one step further,
the Fed used to be a big macro
indicator. Now it's the earnings from
Microsoft and Meta even more so. And so
it raises this question of how do you
get signal from noise at a time where
all the signals are changing and the
noise is mounting and that I think is
what people are looking at these
specific stories the fiscal the uh
specific national champions
>> and you got this big spread opening up
between growth and how people feel about
that growth the tension in between is
where the politics is playing out the
remedies being introduced to address
that
>> it's a pretty crazy time let's put it
that way Tom it's fantastic to see you
>> thanks for dropping by Tom Becker of
Black Rockck there's so much to think
about in this market I have to say it's
the most interesting financial market
for me, never mind the pandemic, maybe
since the Euro zone debt crisis.
Different moment, but really interesting
moment.
>> It's a transformative moment, one that
historians are going to look back on and
really pin an entire new regime. And we
talk about Brett and Woods Accord. This
is going to be that type of shift on a
whole global scale.
>> Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara with more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, [music] John. Comcast reporting a
higher thanex expected drop in domestic
broadband customers in the fourth
quarter. The telecom giant says it lost
181,000 [music] customers, a 30% dip
versus a year ago. Comcast streaming
service Peacock also missed estimate.
Shares are in [music] the green.
Meanwhile, Tesla shares are also in the
green, up 2.3%. The EV maker announcing
[music] $20 billion of spending this
year to streamline its EV lineup and
shift resources towards robotics and AI.
Elon Musk's company is discontinuing its
[music] Model S and X vehicles. It also
plans to invest about $2 billion in
Musk's X AI. And Nvidia, Microsoft, and
Amazon are in talks to [music] invest as
much as $60 billion in OpenAI as part of
a new funding round. That's according to
the information. The startup is looking
to raise at least $50 billion in the
round at the valuation of up to $830
[music] billion. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, negotiating in
Washington. If there [music] are things
that the Democrats want that the
administration can agree uh you know
with them about then let's do that.
>> Senate Democrats are united [music] on a
set of common sense and necessary policy
goals that we need to rain in ice.
>> That conversation up next with Janette
Low of Strategus live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Stocks are up by two ten of 1% on both
the S&P 500 and on the Nasdaq. On the
Russell this morning, small caps up by
0.4. Under surveillance this morning,
negotiating in Washington.
>> A government shutdown is not in
anybody's interest. If there are things
that the Democrats want that the
administration can agree uh, you know,
with them about, then let's do that.
>> This is not border security.
This is not law and order. This is
chaos. Senate Democrats are united on a
set of common sense and necessary policy
goals that we need to reign in ice and
end the violence.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Senate Democrats and the Trump
administration making some progress in
talks aiming to avoid a partial
government shutdown. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now for more. Good
morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, it's our
understanding that progress is being
made towards a potential deal. we could
be headed towards at least a short-term
shutdown just based on how the calendar
is working out. Now, it appears the
agreement that's emerging would strip
out DHS funding and allow lawmakers to
pass the other five appropriations
bills. There's also talk that we could
see what's known as a short-term stop
gap measure to fund DHS in the meantime
while they work out a broader longer
term agreement. Now, Democrats have
outlined their full list of demands.
This does include body camera mandates,
new warrant requirements, a uniform code
of conduct for federal officers, and an
end to immigration sweeps, but it's not
clear what the White House will agree
to. And the real issue is even if there
is an agreement, this plan is going to
require it to be kicked back down to the
House no matter what. And lawmakers in
that chamber are out of session and out
of Washington until next week. The
funding deadline is this Friday at
midnight, which means that we are likely
looking at a lapse in funding, at least
over the weekend, and the House gets
back into town. Plus, there's no
guarantee. I'll point out that the House
is even going to get behind this plan.
We're already starting to hear from some
House conservatives that are making some
demands of their own. Though, of course,
if it has the White House's backing,
that would pave the way. But unless
another solution emerges, that could be
the pathway that we're headed down. I
will quickly add some of those other
solutions could be a separate
legislative vehicle or executive action,
but Democrats have maintained that this
is their best way to maintain leverage
by tacking it on to this legislation and
threatening a shutdown. John, I will say
I was on Capitol Hill yesterday and the
overwhelming sense was at least these
two sides are talking compared to the
last shutdown where it seemed like they
weren't even going to engage. Perhaps
giving us a little bit more insight into
how potent a policy and political issue
this is now becoming for Republicans.
Tyler Kendall thank you Tyler down in
the nation's capital in Washington DC to
build on that Janette Lo strategist
writing this any shutdown would likely
be shortlived or shortlived as chairman
pal once said
>> I think we don't shortive okay all right
>> that was a shortlived issue [laughter]
pronunciation
>> shortlived particularly if the Senate
does not strip out the homeland security
funding bill Janette joins us now for
more Janette apologies for getting off
track there let's get back on track
going into the weekend is this shutdown
avoidable
>> yeah I mean it looks right now, like
we're going to, again, as Tyler
mentioned, have a short-term shutdown
over the weekend, which would be less
impactful than obviously if it was
lasting much longer than that. There is
this issue about the fact that they are
not going to do a separate legislative
vehicle. As Tyler said, it does seem
like they want to, the Democrats want to
use the funding bill as the vehicle for
some of these changes on immigration
enforcement. And so that's why we're
probably going to have to have this
shutdown. Now, obviously, this could,
you know, we could have at least a
continuing resolution to cover the um
Homeland Security bill once the House
comes back in on Monday. So, this could
be very short-lived. It could last only
3 days, but obviously depending on how
this plays out, this could have big
implications. A shutdown would only be a
partial shutdown. Six appropriations
bills were passed, but this is still
about 75% of the government funding, and
it includes important things depending
on how this plays out. do they pass um
the defense spending bill because we
obviously are trying to uh threaten Iran
with action right now. So that is not
exactly good to have a shutdown with
we're trying to have a very strong US
national security strategy. What would
happen to IRS funding? We're in the
middle of tax refund season. So that
could have a really big impact. And then
obviously um labor as well. So if that's
not taken care of, we could actually
miss another jobs report at the end of
next week. So, I do think that Congress
has been on a path to avoid a shutdown.
They will probably try to get these five
bills passed immediately and get that
taken care of and then we'll be dealing
with this Homeland Security bill and it
would be a partial shutdown that may
last hopefully just a short amount of
time and that is our overall thinking.
>> Well, let's deal with the Homeland
Security bill because that's going to be
where the huge debate is going to lie.
What What is Senator Schumer actually
asking the Republicans to amend in that
bill?
Yes. I mean, they want to obviously tack
on some policy provisions as Tyler
mentioned where they want to make sure
that there's no use of masks, there's
the use of body cameras, um there's a a
code of conduct, things of that nature.
So, obviously, this would have to go
back to the House. Um there are there
was some options. You know, you heard
some Republicans saying that they were
open to this, but then you've started to
hear others start to say that there have
disagreements particular about like the
mask issue and things of that nature.
Um, and so this could be a little bit of
a a a friction point, but obviously the
administration does know that something
needs to be done in the wake of what's
happened over the weekend with the
shooting of a US citizen. They do
realize that they need to make some
changes here and so I think they will
ultimately push to get this bill done
one way or another. Janette, though, if
the Republicans do decide to go along
with these Democrats wants to pass that
bill, are they basically acknowledging
then that their strategy when it comes
to DHS and ICE hasn't actually worked?
>> Not necessarily. I mean, I think you've
heard from a lot of Republicans the way
they've framed the issue that they can
say that, you know, there's been less
safety for everyone involved. there are
ways that they can show that just the
tactics have maybe become a little bit
too strident and there need to make some
changes. So I think that they can do
this in a way that creates um not a
losing message for the Republicans.
>> Janette, is it a good strategy to hold
government funding hostage to try to get
some leverage? I mean, this seems like
voters are not particularly pleased with
that. The last time around, it didn't
really work out for Democrats. Uh there
were a lot of concerns around air
traffic and we're tr still trying to
work through the lack of data releases.
I mean, is this something that's sort of
running out of power in terms of the
voter base?
>> Yeah, I mean, one of the things that
obviously when we came into, let's say,
last Friday, there was an effort to have
this bill done, have funding completely
taken care of before the deadline
tomorrow um evening. But what happened
with the shooting was obviously a a a
stark change. It created the need to
find some sort of leverage to change
tactics. Otherwise, I think both parties
were completely against having another
shutdown. They felt the pain on both
sides of that 43-day shutdown that we
had last fall. But there is the concern
obviously that if they try to do a
separate legislative bill, there's worry
that maybe it passes the Senate, but it
never passes the House. And so there's
also this fear that that ruins their own
leverage on the Democratic side if they
have to give up the option to try to
hold the um government funding hostage.
Obviously, I don't think people would
want a long-term um shutdown. I don't
think the White House, the Republicans,
or the Democrats want a long-term
shutdown. I think they do want to find a
solution here, and hopefully this will
just last a few days to get this over
the finish line.
>> Janette, you mentioned something else
that the administration understands that
something needs to be done. I just
wonder if you expect other personnel
decisions to be made from uh either the
cabinet level or beyond to try to
address some of the uh unrest.
You know, I mean, it's obviously always
an option. Um, can't necessarily say
whether or not we see that happening at
this time. Obviously, the one big move
is to move Tom Hman into Minnesota. Um,
that was obviously a strategic decision
to try to change the tactics that are
being used and to do some deescalation.
We'll see if other things come out of
this. Obviously, it's been just a week.
We'll have to see how some of this plays
out and see if there are other
ramifications that happen down the line.
>> Janette Lo of Strategus. Janette, thank
you. I don't think you can overstate
just how popular the president's push
was on immigration in the election and
how deeply unpopular the execution has
been over the past month.
>> Yeah, people were really for this whole
idea of cracking down on immigration and
there was a feeling that the border was
really open and now as people see these
images, it has flipped completely. If
you take a look at the approval of ICE
has gone down dramatically. So, you
start to wonder at what point does that
force some pretty big changes at the
leadership of ICE, but also just
potentially the approach that they're
taking.
>> They've lost the argument here. so
quickly. They did such a tremendous job
of shutting down the southern border and
then this and the imagery of the past
few weekends. Not good.
>> It's not good. It's not what Americans
want to see. And you could see this
along with the president overall
approval rating is now tracking lower
and you have senators like Tom Tillis
saying individuals heads need to go like
Christy Nome.
>> Up next on the program coming up we'll
catch up with Krishna of Everore on the
future of Fed independence. Plus Yihara
has some morning movers. Check out
Caterpillar this morning rising on a big
earnings beat. That stock is up by 1.3%.
[music]
Equities positive by 0.2% [music] on the
S&P 500. The Nasdaq higher. Some
outperformance on the Russell. That's
the story of the year so far for small
caps. Not the story of the past few
sessions though. Small caps up by 0.4%
4%. [music] As we count you down, let's
get you some morning movers with more.
Here's Y's Yhira. Hey yra.
>> Hi, John. The AI spending race is
[music] splitting the tech giants this
morning. We're seeing Meta shares up
more nearly 9% in the pre-market as
investors give it a pass to spend big on
AI up to 135 [music] billion worth
because the payoff is showing up when it
comes to improved ads. Microsoft not
getting getting the same pass. shares
are down [music] 7% as investors
scrutinize its record AI spending. And
speaking of all that capex, [music]
well, someone's got to build it and
power it. And that's where Caterpillar
comes in. Shares are up 1 and a4% in the
pre-market. It posted a strong beat in
the fourth quarter as the industrial
giant now becomes an AI play as surging
electricity demand from data centers is
lifting its [music] power generation
units. And we end on some fun with Royal
Caribbean shares are up 7 and 12% in the
pre-market. It was a beat and a raise
for the [music] premium cruise line as
the CEO says about 23 of 2026 cruises
are already booked and that momentum
continuing into 2026 according to him.
We'll see if we see the same strength
[music] from the nonpremium cruise lines
amid this K-shaped economy. But for now,
people want to be at sea. John,
>> who are these people? Who are they? I
think it's you. So, you could do seven
night perfect day Bahamas cruise
starting for $859 a person.
>> I mean, I could tell you go to Nassau,
perfect day at Coco K.
>> That [music] sounds terrible.
>> Sounds completely your speed, John. I
think you should go there.
>> Is there a premium cruise line?
>> Yes, it is. It's called
>> Is there?
>> Yeah, you do a river cruise. It's
called, you know, chartering a yacht.
>> I've acknowledged that's the one thing I
would do. That's my premium cruise as
well.
>> And you charter your own yacht. That is
a premium cruise. I think Coco K has
your name written all over it.
>> Okay, I'll make that happen.
>> I think you should.
>> Yeah. All right. How much is it?
>> Uh, that is $800. It start $59 per
person.
>> Uh, $1,718
total per room.
>> It's expensive quick.
>> Yeah, exactly. I mean, but it's, you
know, all inclusive, so you know, that
doesn't drink [music] too much. I might
take up drinking if I have to go on a
cruise. And I ra this morning, President
Donald Trump issuing a warning to Iran.
Make a nuclear deal with the US or face
military strikes. Iran saying it's ready
for dialogue but that it will defend
itself. The tensions pushing Brent crude
back towards $70 a barrel. Crude up by
2% this morning. Elsewhere, Nvidia CEO
Jensen Wang saying customers in China
have yet to place orders for H200 chips.
Hang adding Beijing has not decided on
allowing the chip makers imports. The
comments coming after Nvidia CEO met
customers and government officials in
China. That name is down about 210 of
1%. And finally, the New York City mayor
Zaran Mdani asking Governor Kathy Hokll
to hike taxes for the richest residents
and corporations. Mani arguing that the
additional money would close the city's
budget gap. Hokll insisting she would
not raise taxes.
>> She was asked about this yesterday in an
unrelated press conference and she said,
"We're not raising taxes in the state of
New York. I'm not raising taxes for the
sake of raising taxes." He's been saying
it since he was running for office a
year ago. So, I don't know what the news
flash is. uh talking about the strong
partnership that she continues to have
with the mayor. Look, she's running for
re-election and if she raises taxes,
well, I guess that we are going to have
a Republican as a governor of this state
and I think that that really is the
tension. How feasible are some of these
proposals coming from mayors or
>> Please don't confuse this with an
opinion because I don't have any. But
does governor Kathy Hokll have a
credible position on anything
>> on anything?
So there is a question uh are you saying
that she would raise taxes or that just
she doesn't have a position on
>> the last time we had this debate in
Midtown Manhattan about a congestion
charge she changed her mind pretty
quickly right and that was in the leadup
to an election
>> so it sort of raises the question how
much is the election going to determine
her position and right now the election
is going to determine that she's not
going to raise taxes and that ultimately
is what people are betting on
>> and then what happens next isn't this
just the direction of travel for New
York isn't this where things are going
>> if it's not this year might be the
following year. Yeah. But we always have
this budget dance between the city and
the state. He has to come out and say
that he's going to get this done. But
Kathy Hulk is saying I she is saying and
she has been saying she's been saying
for months I can't lose any more people
to Palm Beach because she sees the
capital flight and this would be the
best opening you can imagine from the
Nassau County Executive um Bruce
Blakeman who's running and is backed by
Trump and they are going to do a ton of
press around this if she ever entertains
the idea of raising taxes for New
Yorkers. It does raise a question. If
Mayor Zoran Mandani was so popular to
get into office, how much of a ground
swell of support is there for some of
these proposals on a broader level? And
at what point does the electorate start
to push for some of these types of
measures? And I do think that that is a
broader point that has to be recognized,
especially given the fact that we
haven't seen consumer sentiment this low
since 2014. So you start to wonder, yes,
you could say, well, it's not going to
happen, so forget about it. Ignore it.
But this push for higher taxes to fuel
some of the proposals that we're hearing
like free child care, like free buses,
like free a lot of things. There is a
question of whether this is the path of
travel and I think it's decent to bring
that up.
>> Feels like that's the direction of
travel at the moment. Matt Miller, I'm
going on a Disney cruise next month. So
Matt,
>> is he really
>> is that guy?
>> But he has kids, young kids. And if you
have young kids and you want to just
check out while they run around the
pool, I get it.
>> But we all know for Matt a Disney cruise
is probably actually for him. for Matt.
The
>> biggest kid of all.
>> It's for Matt. You ever been to Matt's
house?
>> No.
>> Open up the cupboards. Mickey Mouse
>> cereals and like candy and stuff. And
that was when he didn't have kits.
>> Reese's puffs [laughter]
by dad.
>> Yeah. Let's turn to the Federal Reserve.
Fetch J. Pow defended the central bank's
independence.
>> And we we haven't lost it. I I don't
believe we will. I certainly hope we
won't. But it's very important. And the
reason it's important is that it's
enabled central banks generally not to
be perfect but to serve the public well.
>> You're confident it can maintain that
independence at this point.
>> Yes. I mean I'm I'm strongly committed
to that and so are my colleagues. Pal
warnings his successor to quote stay out
of elective politics. Chris Lua of
Evercore writing this. In voting to cut,
Waller stays in the competition for the
chairmanship even though the odds
currently favor Rita Walsh or even a
reset to try to persuade Besson. Krishna
joins us now for more. Krishna, welcome.
We'll talk about some of the substance
and the economy, but I do want to pick
up on this story of who's taken over the
Federal Reserve. You've seen these
twists, these turns in previous runs to
replace the Fed chair. What's unique
about this one?
>> Oh, where do we start? I mean, this is a
chair selection race like none before.
Obviously, first and foremost, because
the president has such strong views
about monetary policy, but also has
strong views about the relationship
between the central bank and the
administration.
So, all eyes on this to an extent that
we've never seen before. The search
itself has been very interesting, right?
We have come down to this short list of
candidates. Uh but we've seen different
candidates. So it look like they were in
pole position and then fade. First
Hasset, then Walsh. Now Rita is being
talked about as the guy who's maybe in
pole position. Uh but we haven't yet
seen a definitive convergence on any of
those candidates. Wallace still in the
running. And as I wrote, just some
chance that Trump's roving eye is
telling you he's not completely sold on
any of these guys and might yet hit
reset and try to have another go at
Scott.
>> Krishna, this seems to be what a lot of
people keep coming back to. We've heard
that from Neil Duta over at Redmac as
well. I do wonder how relevant it is who
the pick is given the fact that Senator
Tom Tillis of North Carolina said that
he wouldn't pass anyone through uh the
nomination the confirmation process to
be the next Fed chair as long as this
subpoena was outstanding of the Federal
Reserve.
>> So you're right that that is obviously
you know an important impediment at this
moment. I think the sensible path, and
we're not in a world where sensible
paths are always the ones chosen, but
the sensible path here will be for the
DOJ to quietly close out that
investigation
uh around the time that the new nominee
is put forward so that the new nominee
has clean sailing in the Senate and then
of course the greatest possible ability
to influence the Fed in the direction of
deeper cuts, which is of course what the
president's actually shooting
Krishna, how can a Fed give forward
guidance if we don't have a sense of
what the reaction function is of the
members because we don't know who the
members are? I mean, how much does that
really hamstring one of the main tools
that the Federal Reserve has?
So super important point and I think the
short answer is uh anything that the
current chair even more broadly the
current committee to some extent says
right now you have to take with a little
bit of pinch of salt because it can
really only provide maximally credible
guidance from here up to May when Powell
steps down as chairman. So I think
that's how we should interpret what we
heard from the Fed this week. The Fed is
clearly indicating that they're
comfortable in a potentially extended
pause posture. And why wouldn't they be,
right? Growth is uh has stepped up. It
looks like the labor market is starting
to stabilize. We've been saying this for
a while. Came into the an above
consensus call on growth. The underlying
inflation picture, I would emphasize,
Powell also emphasized, is still looking
pretty good. And I think that still
holds out the prospect for some cuts
later on in the year. But I think the
way we should read uh Powell and the
current committee is saying doesn't look
like we'll be doing anything much this
side of May. Uh and they're being very
circumspect as to what will happen from
the summer onwards.
>> Krishna, do you think he leaves in May
or does he stay on as a governor?
>> So if you'd asked me that question
before the subpoenas were issued, I
would have said strongly likely that he
leaves. I think one of the uh aspects of
the stupidity of that move was that it
backfires against the president's own
interest by making it more likely that
Powell stays on as a regular governor
because he can't be seen to be yielding
to that pressure
>> therefore it's kind of indogenous from
here right if the administration
deescalates in a sustained and serious
way I suspect he still goes but if they
don't he won't
>> sorry Krishna but we just heard a clip
from Jay Powell saying he's committed to
fend independence if he stays on. Isn't
he also showing that he is very
political as well?
>> Not really. I mean, I think the most
important thing at this juncture is that
Powell uh needs to make it absolutely
clear that the administration uh is not
able to push out Fed officials by uh
using DOJ investigations against them.
That is the most important thing in this
particular moment. Now, as I said, if
the DOJ is smart enough to close out
that investigation, and if in general
the Trump administration sees the wisdom
of deescalating from here and backing
their guy for success, then you still
got several months to go to May. You
could end up with a situation where Pal
can indeed walk away in good conscience.
>> It's such a shame, Krishna, that this
has become such a big distraction
because there's an important economic
debate that needs to be had. Many people
on Wall Street are expecting growth to
pick up and at the same time they think
inflation will be contained. You
yourself say the economy will be
stronger not hotter. How convinced are
you with that for the year ahead?
>> So I think this is absolutely a strong
growth year and as again again we have
had an above consensus forecast on
growth for 26 all along. The issue is
really this debate. Does stronger mean
hotter or does stronger mean not hotter?
Now, I'm in the second camp, but we're
going to be pragmatic and have to listen
to what the data tells us. Why am I in
the second camp? First, because I think
a big part of this story, the dominant
part of this story is a step up in
productivity. It was very interesting to
see Powell turn to that when he was
asked about what are the implications of
stronger growth. It depends on whether
it's driven by and accommodated by
productivity or not. I think all the
data right now is still very benign on
the inflation front. I expect that to
continue, but I'm going to be on the
lookout for any signs that I'm wrong.
One thing to watch, of course, is
whether unemployment stabilizes and
drifts down a bit, which is my base case
expectation, or instead starts to plunge
on this faster growth. If it's plunging,
that's suggesting the neutral rate is
higher than we thought. That would be
the case where there isn't really room
for cuts. But right now I still think
that you've got a pretty good bet of
getting two and you can still have a
shot that the new chair can even get you
to three.
>> Krishna, thank you sir. Krishna go there
of Everore. That last point is so
important. It's just such a shame we're
distracted by all of this nonsense in
Washington when that's the conversation
we should be having.
>> Yeah, productivity is the fairy dust
that people are looking for and the
question is do we have that or do we
have a boom that's going to come with
inflation that needs to be tamed and
ultimately that's what people don't have
an understanding of. And if you really
were confused enough, we don't even have
the data necessarily and we could be
heading into another shutdown. We're
just working through all of that. So
yeah, exactly. I mean that that's what I
was thinking. I mean I'm just thinking
about Ed Bastion and Scott Kirby over
sitting there. Like why why us? Why keep
>> attacking the economist? We might not
get the jobs report.
>> Why keep doing it? Wall Street problems,
right? Lack of data, all that stuff. All
right, Matt Hornbeck and Morgan Stanley
is going to join us in just a moment to
talk about that. Let's get you an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yihara with more. Hey
yara.
>> Hi John. Well, we may avoid a shutdown.
President Donald Trump and [music]
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer
moving toward an agreement to avoid that
government shutdown. The New York Times
reporting the two sides are close to
agreeing to Democrats demands to remove
long-term Homeland Security funding from
a massive spending bill to keep the
government open past [music] Friday.
Meanwhile, Starbucks reporting stronger
than expected growth in its fiscal first
quarter and a solid outlook for the
year. Global Same store [music] sales
climbing 4% beating estimates. CEO Brian
Nickel telling analysts the company has
identified $2 billion in cost [music]
cuts as it works to streamline
operations and improve service. And
Jersey Mike Subs, the sandwich chain
with more than 3,000 locations is
reportedly working with Morgan Stanley,
JP Morgan, and Jeff on a potential IPO
[music] offering. Sourc is telling us
here at Bloomberg the company is seeking
a valuation of at least $12 billion and
more banks are expected [music]
to be part of the lineup. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate the update.
Up next, the case for holding.
>> The US economy expanded at a solid pace
last year and is coming into 2026 on a
firm footing. There was broad support on
the committee for holding.
>> Matt Hornbeck of Morgan Stanley joins us
next.
[music]
equity futures positive by a tenth of 1%
on the S&P 500 on the Nasdaq just about
in positive territory and Savannah
[music] this morning the case for
holding
the
>> US economy expanded at a solid pace last
year and is coming into [music] 2026 on
a firm footing.
While job gains have remained low, the
unemployment rate has shown some signs
of stabilization and inflation remains
somewhat elevated. Available indicators
suggest that economic activity has been
expanding [music] at a solid pace. There
was broad support on the committee for
holding.
>> So here's the latest this morning. US
Treasury is holding steady as the
Federal Reserve pauses its rate cutting
cycle. Matt Hornback of Morgan Stanley
joins us now for more. Matt, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning. How much heavy lifting is
one month's data doing for the Federal
Reserve?
>> Well, it seems like quite a lot. Uh I
would not look at a chart of the
unemployment rate and see it tick down
once in a very clearly defined uptrend
and call that stability. Personally, uh
you can look at the the U6 measure of
unemployment. It did also tick down, but
it is also very clearly still on an
uptrend. So I'm a little bit boggled by
that definition of stability myself. Uh
but to each their own.
>> But you are forecasting strength this
year in the US economy.
>> Absolutely. I mean I think our
economists look at the situation. They
look at the fiscal impulse. They look at
the AI capex spend and they see signs of
strength. And by the way I mean the US
economy is not weak. If you look at
final domestic demand, you can see that
the economy is in fact operating just as
it had prior to the pandemic, which
means strength, but it doesn't mean 4%
5% strength.
>> Why is that wrong? Why is that
misleading?
>> Well, one of the quirks in how the GDP
accounting u ends up coming out is net
exports. And net exports involves
imports. Imports today are adding to
growth and usually they subtract from
growth. But the reason why imports are
adding to growth is because of tariffs
and it's because we aren't importing as
much um as we used to as a result. So we
actually have a situation in which the
underlying economy is in fact just fine
but it is just fine in the context of
where we were before the pandemic. And
if you recall where we were before the
pandemic, we had 2% real growth and we
had basically 2% inflation. It was
actually a little bit below 2% inflation
on core PCE. So this actually all aligns
with how the Fed I think is generally
thinking about the US economy. But don't
look at the Atlanta Fed's GDP now cast
which everybody does and be hypnotized
that something else is going on. The
economy is very is just fine. Well, if
the economy is just fine and
unemployment rate, you think uh that
stabilizing is the wrong way to maybe
characterize it, how much more room for
cutting do you think that there is? I
mean, do you think that right now this
Fed is underestimating how much they
really can continue to slash rates?
>> This is a question about where is
equilibrium in the economy both in terms
of growth and inflation as well and
importantly uh with interest rates. And
when we look at what's going on with
population, in fact the population
estimates were just updated yesterday.
And when we look at those, it leads us
to believe that trend growth, potential
growth is probably coming down. And so
if trend growth is coming down and we
are in a prefinancial crisis world, then
so too is RSTAR or the real equilibrium
interest rate. And as that comes down,
the Fed can continue to lower interest
rates. In fact, they would have to
continue to lower interest rates just to
maintain the current level of
accommodation in monetary policy. So
there is definitely scope for them to
keep cutting rates. Our economists of as
you know led by Michael Gapen is looking
for two more rate cuts this year. It's
one more than the Fed and it is about
the same as what we have priced into the
markets today.
>> But there was no sense of urgency to
what you're outlining in the press
conference yesterday. Are you surprised?
Well, it's not clear that there needs to
be an urgent set of rate cuts, right?
These concept of potential growth,
equilibrium interest rates, they move
very slowly and so it makes sense that
the Fed may be taking its time lowering
interest rates. It needs to figure out
over time where is the equilibrium
interest rate in the economy. But we do
have data coming up as always and the
BLS is making a change to the labor
market report that I don't think that
many people are aware of, but they're
making a change to their net birth death
model, which could have implications for
how this labor market data ends up
coming out this year.
>> So, when you look at the consumer
sentiments yesterday, the conference
board, consumers who said that jobs are
plentiful plunged to 23.9%.
It was at 28% in December. Based on what
Wall Street is saying and what consumers
are saying, it's two very different
economies.
>> It seems that way. I I think one of the
problems with sentiment surveys is that
we generally don't know how many people
respond to them. And one of the things
that we have seen since the pandemic, as
you're well aware, because you're all
smiling at me, uh is that the response
rates to data have come down. So when we
think about the S&P global uh purchasing
manager indices, when we think about the
ISM purchasing manager indices, one
thing that they don't tell you is the
response rate. How many people are
actually responding to these surveys,
which is why I think they've generally
become more disconnected from reality is
because not as many people are
responding.
>> Matt, what's the bond market call now
for you and the team? So, we're
basically seeing the long-term Treasury
yields remain rangebound, but we do
think that with more rate cuts will come
lower short-term interest rates. So, we
think the curve will continue to
steepen. Short-term interest rates come
down, long-term interest rates remain
generally rangebound.
>> Dollar weaker and the dollar weaker.
Absolutely. That's been one of our core
calls for the past year is that the
dollar was in a downtrend. And that
downtrend, of course, doesn't happen by
appointment. It it takes catalysts to
cause it to to trade weaker. Obviously,
what we saw last Friday with the rate
checks both from the Japan Ministry of
Finance and the US Treasury was a
catalyst to push the dollar weaker.
>> Are you expecting some intervention on
that side of things?
>> Well, it's not clear. Well, I would
argue we've already seen intervention.
It's called verbal intervention. Uh it's
not clear that we actually need physical
trade trade-based intervention at this
point. The dollar has come off quite a
bit and if the data come in like we
think they will softer inflation over
the course of the year uh labor markets
that generally remain in a malaise then
the dollar continues to go down on the
data. The dog has barked. Let's see if
we get a bite. Matt, thank you sir.
Appreciate it. Matt Hornbach there of
Morgan Stanley. The president weighing
in on interest rates. This is what he's
got to say on social media this morning
in a statement. Jerome Tulle Pow again
refused to cut interest rates even
though he has absolutely no reason to
keep them so high. He is hurting our
country and its national security.
>> This is a very long statement from the
president. So clearly he's digesting
what Jay Powell had said yesterday and
once again saying he wants lower
interest rates and the man in charge
right now is talking about how actually
we're more in balance when it comes to
the Fed's dual mandate.
>> He does have a decision to make. It's
the replacement for Chairman Pal and I
don't see that in this very long
statement this morning. No, I'm doing a
quick control F. Trying to find anyone's
name. Not there yet.
>> F. That's it.
>> Coming up on the program, David Levitz
of JP Morgan Management, Ed Lello, Nancy
Lazar, and Earl Davis of Vim.
[music]
I think it's a Fed that is comfortable
with the backdrop of data. The data seem
to be [music] improving from here.
>> They're now in wait and see mode and
they're basically waiting to see what's
happening on inflation.
>> There doesn't seem to be the market
pricing at a huge risk of inflation
going forward.
>> We know somewhat where [music] inflation
is. The markets are extremely confused
>> in the next 6 months. There's really no
real movement towards a cut.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500. Close to alltime
highs, up another 210 of [music] 1% on
the S&P on the NASDAQ up by 0.1. Big
afternoon for the NASDAQ coming up.
Apple reporting after the closing bell.
[music] Your data drops in about 30
minutes time. We'll get jobless claims.
Already getting a statement from the
president of the United States. A
statement on Jerome Pal, the chairman of
the Federal Reserve. Now, the news here
is not what he's saying. It's what he
isn't saying. This is the [music] same
old complaint about interest rates to
the Federal Reserve. The president has
an opportunity
to announce who [music] the next chair
of the Federal Reserve is going to be.
And even though he's complaining, he's
not taking [music] that opportunity.
>> I haven't counted all the words, but
there are a lot of them. And in this,
there are a lot of discussion about the
billions of dollars that could come into
the US with a stroke of a pen. Uh
[music] with more tariffs, there is a
lot of discussion about interest rate
expense. there isn't any definitive
action which raises [music] a question
how is he going to achieve these lower
rates that he's looking for these lower
interest expenses while getting someone
who is credible to markets this is sort
of the uh the person the unicorn that
has not yet emerged I think the
president is saying to Wall Street I
have nothing for [music] you yet on that
basically in the words of Jerome Powell
yesterday to all the journalists it is
interesting that we do not have a
decision yet for this administration
[music] they keep pushing it back the
Treasury secretary said we're going to
get something before at Davos maybe a
little bit after Davos Well, tomorrow is
Friday of the week following Davos and
we still don't have anything. [music]
And right now, given the fact that
Senator Tillis is putting this roadblock
in the way until the DOJ investigation
into Powell is wrapped up, this
administration might take a lot longer
to mle over their decision and make that
announcement.
>> Mismanage the process. And because of
that, it's going to take a whole lot
longer. It's kind of out of their hands
now. Even if they nominated someone
right now today, nobody can really tell
me how long this is going to take based
on what the senator from North Carolina
told us in [music] the last week.
>> Yeah. And it doesn't seem like President
Trump is backing down from the subpoena
of the Federal Reserve because yesterday
he tweeted out a story uh from another
uh news outlet talking about how the Fed
has yet to respond to that subpoena. So
there is this question of okay, they
could make this go away by just simply
withdrawing some of this request. and
yet doesn't seem like that's in the
cards. At least not yet. If the Fed's
not complying yet with the subpoenas and
they're going to drag this out [music]
at this moment, Powell really is in the
driving seat in terms of how long this
is going to go on.
>> Equity [music] futures right now in the
S&P still positive by 0.2%. Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with David
Leovitz of JP Morgan [music] Asset
Management with stocks trading at record
highs. Nancy Lazar of Piper Sandler
breaking down the latest labor market
data and Earl Davis of Beimo Global
Asset Management saying the Fed's easing
window is closing fast. We begin this
hour with stocks rising to fresh records
as tech earnings fuel investor
sentiment. David Levitz of JP Morgan
Asset Management writing, "We see room
for growth to be driven by both
investment spending and consumption in
2026 as the AI story continues to play
out and US consumers benefit from the
one big beautiful bill." David joins us
now for more. David, good morning.
consumers feel like crap right now. You
can see that in the surveys. It's pretty
clear. I mean, really, really clear. Are
they going to spend that money in the
way you think they will?
>> So, I I think that there are two things
that are going on here. Um, one, people
are going to find themselves with more
money in their pocket. Two,
[clears throat] affordability is still
the biggest issue facing the consumer
today. And to my mind, that's why you're
seeing the sentiment numbers continue to
come in with such a downbeat uh with
such a downbeat tone. I think though if
we see a world where growth begins to
pick up, where labor markets importantly
begin to stabilize and where the pace of
inflation doesn't reacelerate, consumers
will be comfortable spending. Now, what
they spend on, we've already seen people
move away from name brand to private
label. I think that those trends could
very well continue, but it does look
like the consumer is going to be a key
staple of the growth story as we look
ahead across.
>> Does that speak to the outperformance in
small caps to start the year? Does that
speak to some of the moves we're seeing
worldwide? Just a pickup in global risk
appetite. So, I think part of it is a
pickup in global risk appetite. I think
part of it also has to do with the fact
that we're just looking at a more
balanced environment than where we've
been over the past couple of years. You
know, we've talked many times um on this
show about kind of the the echoes of
COVID and how we've seen these mini
recessions roll through the economy,
you've seen it in housing, you've seen
it in services, you've seen it in
manufacturing. It feels like everybody
is coming back together, right? The
orchestra is sounding a little bit more
unified and coordinated. And that's why
I think you're seeing risk assets in
particular, whether it be small caps,
whether it be EM perform well um so far
this year.
>> Is this an environment, this is
something we were talking about earlier,
where equities just will continue to
outperform all other asset classes or
debt in particular given the fact that
it's all about growth. It isn't
necessarily about disinflation. It isn't
necessarily about the financialization
of the economy.
>> Yeah, I I think the market has moved
past the inflation story to your point.
I think it's all about growth and it's
all about profit growth. And that's part
of what has kept us constructive on
owning risk and portfolios over the past
couple of quarters is it is very rare to
see a world where the labor market
cracks and corporate profits remain
solid. Right? You would need corporate
profits to roll over in order to get
concerned about a downshift in growth
and that's just not materializing. And
so with the earnings story there with
the economy well supported with an
expectation that to the conversation you
all were just having about the Fed, we
will get some rate cuts this year,
right? I think that's what's fueling the
appetite for risk. That's what's
allowing equities to continue to grind
higher. And you look at credit markets
and it's like where do we go from here?
You know, 260 on high yield. That's not
looking like a place where you can get a
whole lot of capital appreciation. And
so if you want that upside, investors
are being forced to play the equity side
of the uh the risk bucket.
>> HSBC put out a note uh yesterday talking
about how so far this year it has been
the Russell 2000, it has been the small
caps that have been outperforming. And
that's rotation trade that tries to gain
steam every beginning of the year seems
to have uh you know played itself out.
they're already shifting back to the
mega caps. Are you agreeing with that?
Are you seeing this sort of trade as
having had a nice month, but now it's
time to go back to the others?
>> So, we we prefer to lean into the the
higher quality, larger capitalization
companies. We think that that's a better
way to play this late cycle environment.
And I do think that we are we are now in
a late cycle environment. I think part
of what might be supporting small caps
and may lend further support to small
caps this year is, you know, the return
of animal spirits, more conversation
around IPO activity, M&A activity,
buyout activity, right? All of that is
very positive for smaller companies. You
then look at the nature of some of the
IPOs that are coming and they're going
to be pretty big companies and that's
why I think that you'll see this begin
to fade and that's why I think the
opportunity is still in things like tech
and communication services.
>> We build on where we started with the
consumer. Wall Street is putting so much
emphasis on the tax refunds. What's to
say that consumers didn't spend it? They
all knew for months this was going to be
trickling down and we just got over the
Christmas holiday season. So, the thing
that I've noticed about the US consumer
is that when they have money, they spend
it. And when they don't have money, the
credit cards come out. And so, I think
that's going to be the story this year.
I I actually think my my favorite
non-conensus view today is that the risk
to growth this year is to the upside.
Everybody tells me we're going to have
this gang busters first half of the
year. Things are going to fade in the
second half of the year. I don't see it.
I think people are going to be feeling
good. The wealth effect is real. The
labor market is going to stabilize. We
also have things like the World Cup,
America's 250th birthday. There's a lot
working in favor of the US economy in
2026. That may well change in 2027, but
over the next 12 months, I think that
you're looking at a pretty interesting
opportunity.
>> At least they got dance clearly.
>> Well, 250th birthday party, what? Cuz
everyone's out buying a gift for the
United States. I mean, what is that?
People throw
together
throw a party. I mean, the World Cup.
Are people even going to come? I mean,
there's a lot of questions here.
>> I hope they do. and you're not buying
tickets cuz they're too expensive.
Ridiculously expensive
>> and I think that there is this question
and look I agree. I'm just, you know, in
general,
>> but it's for someone to take me.
>> I mean, it's a very fair point and
that's why we're I'm not allowed to
accept tickets. Don't offer me tickets.
[laughter]
>> Well, that's that's what that's what
leaves comfortable with the outlook is
the the consumer is really only one
piece of that puzzle, right? To the to
the birthday point. My guess is that
that results in a bit more government
spending. And then you have the whole AI
story that that we haven't even
discussed this morning. You know, that
is something where if you look at the
results that we got last night, there is
more capex in the pipeline. There is
more money that is going to get pumped
into this economy.
>> They're committed to it. They've got the
balance sheet to lever up if they want
to. They're absolutely committed to it
and you see it showing up in
Caterpillar, Copper. You see it all over
the place. Let's say you're right. Let's
run with that.
>> What's not priced for it? Because
equities are leaning that way.
>> What isn't priced for it?
>> So, I I think that equities are very
much leaning that way. you know,
equities around the world don't look
particularly attractive from a valuation
perspective relative to their own
history, relative to the US. And so
that's leading us to lean into markets
like EM and specifically China. We
continue to really like Japan. For us,
Europe is interesting because Europe
doesn't have the tech exposure. And as
somebody who graduated in the financial
crisis, I've never really seen Europe
work. So recency bias is a real thing.
But we think that you can get
diversification benefits from owning
that market because you're not going to
be subject to the same forces and the
same trends that you're getting from EM
in the US which are very much focused on
>> I was trying to get you to talk about
bonds. So I'll do it directly. What does
it mean for fixed income and bonds?
Equities are there growth. Give it to
me. Got it. What about fixed income? Can
yield stay this rangeband this stable in
the face of a much much better growth
profile?
>> So I I would argue that the risk to
rates is to the upside. But I would
argue that if you see rates move higher
on the back of better growth, that's
going to have a very different impact on
the equity market than when rates move
higher on the back of an increase in
term premia, i.e. the government saying
something that that upsets the market.
And so, you know, higher rates from a
growth perspective, I think leave
equities okay. But for us, you're not
really looking at back to our
conversation earlier, significant
opportunity for capital appreciation,
whether you're looking at government
bonds, whether you're looking at credit,
embu
perform well, but you know, the juice
has effectively been squeezed out of
that orange. And so our view from a
credit perspective is you're basically
going to get your carry. We have a lot
of conviction that you're going to get
your carry, but we're not sure that
there's much upside above and beyond
that. If you want that upside, you have
to go to equities. And that's what keeps
us overweight equities, neutral on
credit, and then neutral on duration as
well.
>> I want to just sum up something that
we've been talking about throughout the
morning. this idea of how we had had the
financialization of the markets when you
first graduated and you came in post a
financial crisis or during the financial
crisis
>> and now we're moving to another phase
where this is the real world really
reasserting itself in a new way. The
capex is taking an increasing proportion
of growth and frankly budget of balance
sheets. How different is this investment
landscape from when you graduated and
from the years and years of 0% interest
rates that really fueled a lot of
financialization? So, it's interesting
because I've also worked on our
long-term capital market assumptions for
the better part of the past decade and I
[clears throat] remember times where we
said the 60/40 portfolio is going to pay
you 4% over the next 10 to 15 years.
Nobody liked that story. Our number is
now closer to 6 and a half. The reason
why is that you have these forces of,
you know, more active fiscal spending my
governments, more economic nationalism.
Well, how do you respond to that as a
corporation? you invest more money in
things that can solve some of the
problems that the political sphere is is
creating. And so I do think we're moving
away from this world of
financialization. I do think that you're
going to see real dollars spent
[clears throat] on real things. And I
think overall that leaves us in a world
where fixed income gives you income,
equities give you growth, and when you
put it all together in a portfolio, you
can actually generate a rate of return
that allows you to achieve your
long-term objectives.
>> When governments start picking national
champions, do the rules of capitalism
still work? So, I think you need to be
cautious obviously and and there are
certainly some some warning signs in the
current environment, but you know, my my
job is not to pass judgment on whether
that's right or wrong. My job is to
figure out what to do about it. And so,
if you have that type of support coming
through, you have to think of it, yes,
there is some risk, but there's also
opportunity that's being created, which
if you let that go by, you're going to
look silly.
>> We've been giving capitalism a beating
for a long time now. Coming out of GFC,
central bankers kicked it in the gut.
and coming out of the pandemic,
governments are doing the same thing.
>> I would ag I would agree with that. I
think
>> let's not pretend any of this is
>> I I would agree with that. I would just
wonder if you are operating by a certain
rule uh game of rules, do you have to
change those rules as an investor and
start to shift around your thinking uh
that things won't necessarily make sense
in the same kind of way. I'm just
wondering how that sort of introduces
some new variables.
>> Totally. Like the government is picking
winners and losers and the last 10 years
central banks just haven't allowed any
losers
>> to some extent.
>> It's true. No, this is something that a
lot of people complain about. Exactly.
The beer goggles,
>> the dynamism, it's gone away. It's a
complaint. You know,
>> the small businesses, where are they?
>> But I think at the end of the day, you
know, stock prices follow earnings. And
so, if you can follow the earnings
regardless of why those earnings are how
those earnings are being generated,
right, that should work work out if
you're a long-term investor.
>> There we go. Sensible, David. Thank you.
We appreciate it. We need some
[laughter] of that. David Leitz of JP
Morgan asset management. No emails
offering tickets, by the way.
>> Look, they're they're listening to your
first comment, not necessarily the look
in your eyes. Please, please don't just
ignore what I'm saying. Yeah, exactly.
>> Brazil, something like that. I don't
know. [laughter]
Just
>> Oh, now you're getting choosy.
>> No, you know, should I pick a date?
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Talks to avert a government
shutdown gaining momentum ahead of
today's vote in the Senate. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg, the Trump
administration is moving closer to
Democrats demands over homeland security
funding. [music]
Meanwhile, US borders are Tom H. Home.
Home. Home. Home. Home. Home. Home.
Home. Home. Homeman holding a press
conference in Minneapolis this morning.
He arrived two days ago and is leading
ICE operations in [music] the city.
Meanwhile, President Donald Trump taking
to Truth Social this morning to continue
his criticism of Federal Reserve Chair
J. [music] Powell. The president writing
Jerome Tate. Powell again refused to cut
interest rates even though he has
absolutely no reason to keep them so
high. President Trump adding, "We should
be paying the lowest interest rates of
any country in the [music] world." And
it's the end of an era at Southwest
Airlines. The company is ending its
decades old practice of open seating.
Assigned [music] seating is being rolled
out this week. Southwest says the
seating changes are meant to keep up
with evolving customer [music]
expectations, plus boost profits. The
Dallas based carrier is also charging
travelers for checked bags. Now, you
remember [music] grief, John.
>> Yara, thank you. The good old days on
Ryan Air.
>> It was wild.
>> Okay.
>> Used to line up really early. used to
line up really really early
>> your own adventure. [music]
>> You'd line up so early.
>> It was crazy.
>> Like two hours before it takes off.
>> The good old days.
>> And then the sprint. The sprint across
the runway to get on the plane and block
seats for the rest of the [music] good
old days. Would you ever do that again
now?
>> No.
>> Okay. Absolutely not.
>> It is fun at first. It is fun at first
[laughter] to experience that. Exactly.
Of course.
>> That's just what it was.
>> Right. But £15 to fly to Italy back in
the day, you know.
>> So I can't tell. Is this romancing it or
is this sort of discussing the [music]
things that you leave behind?
>> Bit of family fun. Bremo. Sort of like
fighting everyone off to to block the
seats.
>> When Junior is of age, you can [music]
take him just to experience that.
>> Sure. He'll love that.
>> I'm sure he will. He's like, listen to
what dad
>> June 13th, by the way. Met live stadium.
Anyway, up next, the morning calls plus
Ed Lllo joins us as big tech earnings
continue. Apple set to report after
[music] the closing bow. Live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[music]
over the next 3 to 5 years um you know
when you start thinking about the the
shift to an AI world
>> [music]
>> um it is going to be dictated more on
the physical AI um opportunities we've
kind of seen this accelerator shift away
from SHA SAS to kind of the the more you
know chipmated names here.
>> Big divergence opening up in tech at the
moment over the last several weeks, few
months for that matter between hardware
and software. That was Angelo Zeno of
CF. Your equity market doing okay
[music] and I stress just about okay up
by a tenth of 1% on the S&P unchanged on
the Nasdaq 100. That's the price action.
The opening bell at 1 hour and 11
minutes away. Here are your [music]
morning calls. First up, Morgan Stanley
removing Microsoft as a top pick
following earnings, noting disappointing
growth in its cloud computing platform.
That stock is down almost [music] 7%.
Your second call from Key Bank raising
its price target on Meta to 855,
believing its fourth quarter results are
a blue sky scenario. That stock is
flying. It's up 9%. And finally, Mizuo
upping its price target [music] on Tesla
to 540, seeing the company is well
positioned as a leader in physical AI.
The stock is up by 1.8%. Let's [music]
stick with tech. Apple next up to report
as mega cap earnings are doubling down
on AI. Bloomberg's Ed Ledllo joins us
now for more. Ed, welcome to the
program, sir. A big divergence in the
price action between Meta and Microsoft.
You covered the numbers as they dropped.
What stood out for you?
>> It's it's the same equation though. You
know, the concern with Microsoft from
from the sell side and the buy side is
very simple. capital expenditures
accelerating and growing beyond the pace
at which revenues are growing and
actually you know Azure the cloud unit
is the key metric by which we judge
Microsoft's AI success seeing
decelerating growth and you know with
Meta even though the capital
expenditures forecast for this this year
up to $135 billion is kind of eye
watering right they give Meta the
benefit of the doubt because Meta uh
differently to Microsoft showed
outperformance in revenue new growth and
was able to evidence through various
different data points actually that it
is directly tied to their existing um
investments in in AI. They're all taking
these big bets and Ed I think that's
what these companies have in common.
Meta, Microsoft, Tesla, they're taking
massive bets and then you've got Apple
>> and Apple is a curious one because they
don't fit in that to that. It doesn't
feel like they're taking major bets
right now.
The only sort of analogous thing is
probably Tesla to Apple because as
hardware players they they're facing
very difficult environments and we
talked about it less on the blog in the
context of Tesla, but it's a very
difficult environment. Apple's probably
going to have its best ever quarter. The
data from the prior quarter showed that
China was improving. The soft third
party data shows things are quite good.
But not to overstate this, John, the
situation with memory chip prices is
very severe. Um and and and so Apple,
which we've, you know, in years past
called the master of bottom line
management, is going to have to face
very difficult decisions to uh pass on
that cost to the consumer in their
handsets or not. You know, it's really
tough out there like well beyond tariffs
there. We're back to having um some
supply chain issues and I you know, I
was listening to your last guest talk
about kind of like throwbacks to the co
era. A lot of what we see in the
commentary of all of these companies is
very representative of what we were
seeing in 2020 2021. Um, so that's kind
of interesting
>> and I have to say I don't really feel
terrible for Apple when you say it's
hard out there and I see the line out
the door to spend $2,000 on products. So
there is there is definitely that sense
although I will say they are the uh
biggest underperformer among the
Magnificent 7 cohort since late last
year. a real question here about whether
there's sort of a bifurcation now from
some of the buyers of some of these
memory chips and other expensive
components and the providers right I
mean we see this sort of shaking out in
terms of profitability is there some
kind of divergence that's identifiable
or is it case by case uh case by case I
mean I was surprised that Elon Musk gave
such specific commentary last night
about the memory chip market and you
know he basically put it pretty simply
what's happening in memory chips is more
severe that is than what is happening in
AI chips. Um you know the the issue as
well it depends on who you are. Um if
you are Apple and particularly if you're
Nvidia but we're talking about Apple
tonight right you have a lot of leverage
with your suppliers and if your
suppliers are tight on supply and supply
obviously tight supply drives pricing
you have a better ability to negotiate.
So, you know, Apple's management of that
will be looked at. But you're absolutely
right, by the way, big picture, like
Apple does look good right now on the
hardware side. Inevitably, people will
still say, "When is the AI powered Siri
coming?" And, you know, give us some
real evidence that you actually are a
player in this AI thing. But beyond
that, hardware company, and John's
completely right, we we're heading in
slightly different directions now in in
the software corner of this market and
and the hardware corner of this market.
Ed, can we say anything about what kind
of spending on capex is rewarded in
markets and what isn't? I mean, it's
sort of the Microsoft meta breakdown and
this question of whether Apple will get
rewarded for investing in AI or not to
try to keep up with some of its
competitors. I mean, what makes certain
capex good and what makes it bad?
>> You know, like covering mag 7 technology
earnings is very difficult um because
they they don't have like a common
metric. BI does a really good job of
tracking longerterm capex projections,
but they report this in different ways.
So, right, Microsoft's story was that
capex was higher in the quarter gone,
and they give some like incremental
commentary of of going forward. Meta
just comes out the gate and goes up to
$135 billion this year. And
historically, as as you guys know, like
Meta gets punished when spending is too
high and the lossmaking units um have a
loss that is too wide. But actually in
this context, Meta's $135 billion post,
the market was very calm about it. They
kind of think, well, that projects quite
a lot of confidence. Um, the biggest
surprise for me last night is Tesla
coming out and saying $20 billion of
capex because that's double its historic
average, double what the street was
expecting. And you know, you have to
take it with a grain of salt, I suppose,
but Musk also is talking about Tesla
becoming a chipmaker. And and and that's
not even factored into their capex
forecast. But based on the market
reaction this morning, investors look at
it and go, "This is quite useful data.
Thank you."
>> Ed, I think Amar's got a complaint. Just
a brief complaint.
>> Ed, try try covering the Trump
administration. I have the smallest
violin for you out in San Francisco with
the mega tech hyperscalers, please.
>> I get it. Yeah, but look at the bags
under these eyes and this shade. And you
know, it's hard. That's all I'm saying.
>> It's 5:30 in the morning. I got to give
>> You're going to get offered a skincare
regime in a minute. Ed, go
>> run. Ed, thank you, sir. Appreciate it.
He needs to wear the patches
>> under those things you're wearing.
>> Yeah, I'm going to send I'm going to
send some. Don't worry, Ed. They're
coming your way.
>> Okay. All right. Coming up on the
program, the latest jobless claims data
set to cross. We'll catch up with Nancy
Lazar of Piper Sander with us to break
down the data and look back on a news
conference with Chairman Pal. [music]
Chairman Pal at the end of that news
conference. Feels a little looser. He's
ready to go.
>> He's ready to go.
>> It's like you ask him a question. No
thanks. I want to talk [music] about
this instead. I don't have to entertain
this anymore.
>> And he said that a million times.
Actually, he said it seven times. I
don't have anything for you on that
today. And then he said something like,
you know, I'm not going to comment
further from that statement. So, check
it out.
>> He's got two more meetings circled on
the calendar.
>> Not gonna work on the hill.
>> Then he's got a cruise.
>> It's not going to work on the hill.
[music]
>> It's got cruise.
>> I got nothing for you, Senator.
>> He's got a million dollar speech and
then on a cruise again.
>> Yeah. You could just send him on
cruises.
>> Bad lifestyle, is it?
>> Well, it depends on what kind of cruise
it is.
>> True. River cruise. Disney cruise. No.
River cruise. Yes.
>> I have [music] ideas.
>> [music]
>> 60 minutes away from the open and about
seconds away from the economic data. The
scores look like this. Equity futures on
the S&P up by 2/10en of 1%. The NASDAQ
100 up by almost a tenth of 1%. In the
bond market, it has been sleepy, that's
for sure, over the past few months. We
are near the upper end of the range for
the year so far. 425 on tens this
morning and two still anchored around
Fed funds at 35693. [music]
With that economic data, let's cross
over to Mike McKe. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. The numbers are just
coming out now and we don't see much
change in the numbers for initial
jobless claims. They do rise to 29,000
last week, but that's still a very, very
low number. Now, we should point out,
you've heard a lot about layoffs uh the
last 48 hours or so, including uh more
today from DAO. Those won't show up as
jobless claims until those people's
severance runs out. So, uh we wouldn't
expect the numbers that we've heard this
week to suddenly show up. Uh but all
right, here's the interesting thing. Uh
last week's numbers were revised up from
200 to 210. So, the rise to 209 is
actually a decline to 209. So, that's
the way these things work. Couple other
numbers that are out this morning. We
have uh the non-farm productivity and
unit labor costs revisions, and there's
no revision. 4.9% for productivity in
the third quarter and negative 1.9% for
unit labor costs. But here's a number
that will matter to the economy, and
that is the trade balance for November.
Remember, it came in at 29.2 2 billion
an extraordinarily low number when first
reported uh
reported for October. The number is for
November 56.8.
One of the reasons that the Atlanta Fed
GDP now number is so strong is because
imports collapsed in October after so
much stuff was pulled forward. And now
it looks like uh we're getting much more
of the kind of trade balance we have
been getting in the past. Imports rose
5% while exports fell 3.6%. So that will
add or well it will subtract basically
from that GDP now figure and probably
we're going to fall under the uh 5%
anticipated number at this point. So
Mike, you think and you're indicating
really and I think this is important
that the trade numbers have kind of been
skewing the GDP read that we've been
getting. Can you tell us about
underlying demand? What's happening just
to broader consumption outside of that
story? Well, underlying demand has been
relatively strong. It has slowed some
and there's going to be a lot of
interest in fourth quarter spending. Uh
retail sales have been okay and personal
spending okay, but we don't have that
data for December out yet. So, we're
waiting on that and that will tell us
much more about how strong the economy
is. One thing that's going to be
concerning is this collapse in consumer
sentiment because people spend what they
earn and the consumer confidence numbers
that came out from the conference board
this week suggests that people don't
think jobs are going to be available and
they don't think their incomes are going
to be going up in uh the months ahead.
So, in that case, they may be a little
more cautious in spending.
>> Mike McKe, appreciate it. Thank you,
sir. Joining us now to continue the
conversation, Nancy Lazar, Piper
Sandler. Nancy, good morning. Good to
see you.
>> Good morning. Nice to see you.
>> Indicating there the X minus M part of
the GDP formula is kind of skewing
things at the moment. Would you go with
that?
>> Oh, abs. Absolutely. I mean, Atlanta Fed
had 5% GDP for the fourth quarter.
That's probably now unlikely, but
something close to 3 to 4% for the
fourth quarter is probably still still
likely. Do you have a better sense of
exactly what these jobless claims mean
at a time when they seem to be flat
despite what we heard from uh Mike just
there? We're hearing these job cuts
announcements. There is this churn under
the surface and there's a lot of low
sentiment. So, how do you gauge these
numbers and what they mean?
>> Well, actually, I'm quite excited the
fact that claims haven't increase in the
face of these layoff announcements. I
think it's in part because small
businesses are starting to rehire and
80% of jobs in this country are created
by companies that hire less than 500
employees and certainly that's not the
companies that have announced these
layoffs today. So small businesses,
medium-sized businesses are highly
cyclical and they're now feeling the
lagged effects of the Fed easing cycle.
I mean Fed is probably done cutting
rates but they've already cut rates 175
basis points and it takes roughly two
years for that to actually impact the
economy. So that's 24 25. So right now
we're in the sweet spot where lower
rates are helping to support small
businesses and so the NFIB data is
looking encouraging and and so we're
ending the bifurcation I think in the
labor markets where you out of the
pandemic it was the big companies that
were hiring now maybe they overhired and
now you're starting to see smaller
companies uh hire and and again they
drive uh the job market.
>> Forgive my strange faces as I try to
contort myself to try to understand what
this economy is doing because I'm really
struggling here. If you could
characterize things, is this late cycle,
early cycle, midcycle given the fact
that the growth figures are kind of
skewed with GDP that are being
influenced by trade? The jobs numbers
are being skewed by some of the
different uh different industries. I
mean, how would you characterize the
cycle?
>> I'd have to car or midcycle. Uh it
reminds me of 1995. Um and that you had
a Fed easing cycle in 1995, maybe even
1996. Fed tightened aggressively in '94.
You obviously had a tech, it was a
tech-led uh boom in the economy in the
early 1990s. Then the Fed realized they
were behind the curve and they raised
rates in 94 very aggressively. Sounds
familiar. 2000 uh 2001 2002. Uh and then
uh they cut they cut rates uh 75 basis
points in '95 as the economy slowed. Um
and then the economy took off again in
96 uh uh and they and they stopped uh
cutting rates. So it reminds me midcycle
of the 1990s.
>> If they stopped cutting rates and you're
talking about this productivity boom,
are they is the Fed done for this year?
I think they should be done for this
year. Productivity gives you stronger
potential GDP growth. In the 90s, it
only took a 75 basis point cut in Fed
funds at a certainly higher level than
we are today to reacelerate growth from
2 to 4%. Um that is because when you
have a stronger productivity, think of a
healthy company, you don't need
significantly lower rates to get uh
growth to reacelerate again. And I think
that's where we are today.
>> Well, the president certainly wasn't
happy with the decision yesterday. He
made that known today on a truth social
post. How difficult, if you don't see
any rate cuts needed for this year, is
it going to be for the new chairman?
>> Um, I I think the messages can change
and uh uh I think there's a chance as we
go through the year, it's like you look
over your shoulder and it's like son of
a gun. The unemployment rate has stopped
going up. Maybe it starts to come down.
You start to see healthier job growth in
2Q. Uh GDP growth is at least three,
maybe even even four. And the
administration could say come out and
say, "hm, I guess we've done our job.
The economy is actually now improving."
They do change.
>> Does that help housing?
>> Pardon me. Does that help housing
because that seems to be a sensitive
issue.
>> So I think it does. The last thing we
need from housing is another major
easing cycle that obviously created the
boom in housing in in 2005 2006. uh and
even in 200 uh 9 uh 10-11 uh you saw
another pick up in house prices and you
ended the decade with another I would
argue housing bubble in 201 uh 17 181 19
and the we saw that during COVID slow
moderate improvement uh in uh in housing
is actually healthier for house prices.
You don't get another boom and you make
it longer term affordable. You are
already seeing that down south where you
have put in place um a lot of of new
inventory. You're already seeing that in
new house sales. New house sales have
picked up because new house prices have
come down because they over overbuilt.
So we are seeing uh an incremental
healing in in in the housing market.
Housing is becoming more affordable.
Just don't try to buy something here in
the northeast or the west coast. You got
to move down south.
>> This is an interesting point though that
you're making that lower rates could be
problematic. Could have unintended
consequences. I I I I I I totally
believe that you go that you go back and
look at history be it at the late60s be
it what happened to us in 20056 what
happened after the GFC totally I I think
you can create economic excesses you get
a boom and then you get a bust
>> so does that mean that you think that
dropping rates lower from here
substantially unless there is a material
shift in the economy could lead to a
harmful or some sort of bubble type
behavior in risk assets. I I I I really
do. I mean, nominal GDP in the in the
third quarter, quarter to quarter was
over 8% in the fourth quarter. Probably
it will be at least five 6% and then you
have Fed funds roughly of you know three
and a half three and a half%. That's a
huge gap. uh if you think of the economy
as as a company again revenues are
growing uh at a very healthy pace and if
you lower rates too aggressively you do
risk creating another another bubble be
it in tech that's what happened in 98
after Greenspan lowered rates sharply in
just a couple of months after the Russia
LTCM crisis that really created that
last boom in in the tech bubble and then
he had to raise rates and that created
the bust so yeah I think a more moderate
level of interest rates when we have
such healthy growth trajectories albeit
uh housing's not booming but that's fine
Uh yeah, I think it it sustains a cycle.
>> If I were channeling Fed Governor Chris
Waller, I would say, you know, okay,
this sounds really lovely, but you look
at the sentiment surveys, you can see
consumer sentiment is really negative
right now. You look at some of the job
loss announcements. Dow, for example,
coming out and saying they're going to
cut 4,500 jobs this morning saying that
they're going to use artificial
intelligence to bridge some of those
gaps. This is a market that calls for
lower rates to try to support the
employment level. Why would you push
back against that as saying that's not
valid?
>> Okay, so first on consumer confidence, I
would argue there are three measures of
consumer confidence. You've missed
conference board and then we have our
own measure of consumer confidence.
Those other two have been totally wrong
when it comes to consumer spending.
Consumer spending was three and a half%
in the third quarter. It's going to be
at least 3% in the fourth quarter.
Whereas those numbers suggest consumer
spending should clearly be
deteriorating. It's not. Maybe it's more
a political statement than is an
economic statement. Our daily consumer
confidence survey actually turned up
after the government shutdown and is
consistent with a healthier consumer. So
one uh you have to look at all the data
which we try to do. Um and so first on
consumer confidence on AI technological
innovation is is what creates new jobs.
In the old days if you go back to the
70s or talk to Greenspan he used to
seasonally adjust data uh by hand. Uh
economists at some of the big banks in
the 70s would plot graphs by hand. Well,
those entry- level jobs disappeared in
the 1980s, thank God, because that's
when I started. Um, and you use
computers. So, so, so creative
destruction is is actually what makes
the economy, the US economy exceptional.
I still think we are exceptional.
>> You're very constructive on the economy
going forward, but it is an election
year. I know everyone's talking about
tax refunds, but also this president is
willing to run it hot and is going to
push Congress maybe to do other fiscal
stimulus. What do you think that is
going to mean for the inflation picture?
So my colleagues in in in Washington who
are experts on this and I have not
suggest it's going to be very difficult
given the makeup of Congress today to
get additional fiscal uh fiscal stimulus
and it's not just the tax refunds that
is kind of like a sugar high for the
economy and that starts next week. We're
very very focused also on other more uh
structural things that they've done
through full capex depreciation uh and
also deregulation. So those things we
think carry the economy as we go through
the back half of the year. A lot of the
street thinks this is a sugar high,
strong growth in the first half, weak
growth in the second half, and we dis we
we we we disagree with that. We don't
need more fiscal. I'm actually quite uh
impressed with the productivity uh
that's coming out of Washington. I I my
my heart does go out for those who have
lost jobs in in DC, but at the end of
the day, maybe it was a little bloated.
Um and you're improving productivity.
Federal outlays have actually stagnated,
uh which I think is good news. Um, and
so I think I think uh the the fear of
the deficits is also a little bit uh
over overstated.
>> Punchy segment. Thoughtful stuff. This
was good. It's good to see you.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Thank you. Nancy Lazard there of Piper
Sandler echoing a stronger outlook that
I think was presented also by David
Levitz only about 40 minutes ago.
>> Yeah. Pushing back against the consensus
although everyone on the show the
consensus has been it's been a strong
first half and a strong second half and
that ultimately the productivity gains
really will be something that is
sustainable. I think that the headline
is really Eddie Yardi productivity is
the fairy dust and that seems to be what
a lot of people are banking on,
>> right? And he says he's been talking
about the roaring 20s now for years, but
for NY's point at the end there, it's
almost like she can go in and run Doge.
That effort has sort of fell by the
wayside, but a lot of people on Wall
Street were excited about it and moving
from public sector jobs into the private
sector.
>> I'll just say it's nuts how quickly this
decade's going [laughter] because I
remember that note that came from Ed
Denny back in 2020. It's like the
roaring 20s and here we are six years
into the thing.
>> Yeah. No, I agree. I know. It is crazy.
I'm also still thinking about what jobs
I can outsource. I'm trying it with Chat
GPT to see what I can get rid of.
>> It's tough. It's not good enough yet.
>> What you trying to outsource?
>> Well, it just questions about please
compile all job cuts that have to do
with this. This this is not very good.
Please compile like you know research.
Yeah. To try to like you know make it
easier for me so I don't have to do it.
But it doesn't work.
>> If you figure it out, let me know. Okay.
Thanks.
>> All right. Equity futures on the S&P
positive by about a quarter of 1% with
an update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihara Arnard.
Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. [music] Recapping that data we
just got. Initial jobless claims for
last week coming in at 209,000 just a
tick above estimates. [music] And below
the figures for the week prior, it was a
holiday shortened week marked by severe
winter storms across much of the country
which [music] of course can impact the
data. Meanwhile, continuing claims fell
to 1.83 million.
Jersey Mike [music] Subs, the sandwich
chain with more than third 3,000
locations, is reportedly working with
Morgan Stanley, [music] JP Morgan, and
Jeff on a potential IPO. Sources telling
us here at Bloomberg the company is
seeking evaluation of at least 12
billion and more banks are expected to
be part of the lineup. And talks to
avert a government shutdown gaining
momentum ahead of today's vote in the
Senate. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the Trump administration is
moving closer to [music] Democrats
demands over homeland security funding.
US borders are Tom Hman holding a press
conference [music] in Minneapolis saying
he aims to cut the number of federal
officials in the state. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thank you very much.
Up next, Earl. Davis of Beimo saying the
Fed's easing window is closing fast.
Plus, Yahara has your morning movers.
Whirlpool shares plunging after its
outlook disappoints. That stock is down
by about 10%.
[music]
>> [music]
>> If trend growth is coming down and we
are in a prefinancial crisis world,
[music] then so too is our star or the
real equilibrium interest rate. [music]
And as that comes down, the Fed can
continue to lower interest rates. In
fact, they would have to continue to
lower interest rates just to maintain
the current level of accommodation
[music] in monetary policy. So there is
definitely scope for them to keep
cutting rates. That was Matt Horn back
of Morgan Stanley. Equities at the
moment positive by about a quarter of 1%
in the stock market pushing just a
little bit higher up by 210 of 1% on the
NASDAQ 100 with some morning movers.
Joining us now for more here. Hey yhara.
[music]
>> Hi John. We start with the appliance
maker Whirlpool. Shares are plunging
down 10% [music]
in the pre-market and it all comes back
to tariffs. Hear this what CEO Mark Bit
Bitster said. He said even though as a
company obviously we like the concept of
tariffs [music] it did not help us in
2025. That's because Whirlpool says that
competitors frontloaded inventory
keeping their prices low. So Whirlpool
was not able to capitalize as a domestic
manufacturer. [music] So that uh caused
sales to miss in the last quarter and
the outlook not so good either.
Meanwhile, shares of US [music] rare
earth companies are falling in the
pre-market after a report uh Reuters
report said the Trump [music]
administration is stepping back from
plans to guarantee minimum prices for
critical minerals [music] projects.
That's a reversal from last year when
floor prices were promised according to
Reuters. And remember, the US government
did take stakes in [music] USA rare
earth and MP materials. And we end on
the divergence we're seeing in the tech
trade. A big story today. We are seeing
Meta Shares now up nearly 10% in the
pre-market as it gets a [music] pass to
spend big on AI up to 135 billion worth
because the payoff is showing up
especially when it comes to ad targeting
which of course is [music] the engine of
its business. Microsoft not getting to
the same path. Shares are down
>> [music]
>> uh 6 and a half% in the pre-market as
investors scrutinize its record capex.
John,
>> big divergence there. Yhara, thank you.
Great weather this morning. Brilliant
[music]
as always. And it's pretty easy to
explain the story. If you're going to
spend a lot of money, make sure it shows
up in revenue. And that's the story, the
divergence between those two names.
>> Yeah. If you're going to spend money,
also prove that you're not doing it to
play catch-up. Prove that you're doing
it to get ahead of something. And then I
think also is the key. It's also a
question of all right, Meta already went
through their efficiencies, etc. They're
actually showing that they're able to do
the advertising. And Microsoft, I don't
know, it's [music] still kind of at the
wrong end of the trend right now.
>> Apple up next after the closing bound.
the next big tech player to report
earnings after the close. Your trading
diary is shaping up as follows. We'll
hear from the president later. He speaks
at 11:00 a.m. Eastern time. After the
closing, ban, we'll get those earnings
from Apple tomorrow. The [music]
government funding deadline, plus
results from Chevron and Exxon, followed
by PPI data and the return of Fed speak.
El Davis of Beimo's got a lot to say on
the Federal Reserve. This is what he has
to say on this committee. The US will be
on hold for the foreseeable future. The
window for one more ease is closing
fast. Join us now for more. Welcome to
the show. Is that the window for Chair
Pal's Federal Reserve or just the
Federal Reserve for the year ahead?
>> Being cheer chair Powell's Federal
Reserve and the year ahead actually. So
let me back up. So with your previous GU
guess the fiscal stimulus in the market,
I largely agree with that. It's largely
discounted, you know, so move on, carry
on. Uh there's no further impacts of
that. uh e further eases, monetary
eases, two eases largely discounted in
the market. There's no further impact uh
for that. What's not being discounted in
the market and that gives me extreme
concern is the broadening of the
commodity rally. You know, um uh Fed
chair Powell was asked us about gold and
silver and he said we included our macro
but it doesn't have any impact
necessarily on monetary policy. I agree
with that. Having said that, when that
commodity rally expands into what we're
seeing today, copper almost up 10%
today, that has significant impact into
the AI buildout. There's significant
amount of copper used for the energy in
those buildouts. That's a significant
increase in prices there. Um none and
and that's not to speak out the buildout
for energy that's required in in uh
North America in general. I'll also add
in gas at $65. Now when you look over
oil at $65 has direct implications on
gas which is a consumer tax. So because
and now you're seeing in wheat and the
broadening and we expect this to
continue and the reason why we expect it
to continue is silver and gold are
stores of wealth. Wealth is future
spending. When you look at wheat price,
oil price, copper price from a gold and
silver perspective, it looks very cheap.
So we could see continued buying there.
when you look at it on that matters and
that's what's concerning from an
inflationary impact that the market is I
would say complacent about right now and
my team's actually having a meeting in
an hour to to say we're overweight
credit to say whether we should reduce
that overweight or not and go
underweight duration in 30 years for the
broad because of the broadening of the
commodity rally
>> Earl that's exactly where I wanted to go
with this this question of what assets
get hit hardest if people are
underestimating the commoditydriven
inflation that could be in the system
Yeah, I apologize for the sun changing.
I had the perfect cloud before. Um, so
what's interesting is we are uh
constructive and positive on the market
because of everything that's been
mentioned, you know, the fiscal, the
monetary, the tax rebates. We feel uh
the US growth story is going to maintain
and be sustainable for 2026. What this
commodity and the widening of of this
basket does, it's going to add a
significant amount of volatility to the
market. That's what we're not uh that
that's what's not being anticipated. And
I think what you get is a rotation to
real assets basically to answer your
question. Rotate out of financial assets
to real assets, but that's going to take
a longerterm story. It has some legs on
it. We're still buyers of risk, but
we're reducing our risk now to buy at
better levels, which we think we'll have
given how tight valuations are right
now.
>> Is your take on duration a US phenomenon
or is it a global phenomenon that
duration around the globe could suffer
in the face of some of the commodity
boom?
That is that's a a great question and I
would say the further out the curve you
go the more global a phenomena it means
so 30-year bonds so when I say we're
looking at going underweight duration
it's not 2-year bonds 5 year bonds or
even 10ear bonds it's 30 years we're
looking at going underweight uh for two
reasons one is it that's the one that
has the most influence globally uh you
know we're seeing what's going on in
Japan uh you could get some fiscal
expansion continued fiscal expansion in
Europe as well too so uh that has impact
in regards to if I'm going to invest uh
in in 30-year bonds, I can invest
somewhere with a higher yield once uh
swap back to us. So, that's that's one
thing. It's globally. The other thing,
too, is there's just so much price risk
when you have a 30-year bond uh that we
we feel we're not being rewarded for it
now with these levels. 10-year bonds, we
get, you know, we feel comfortable going
long or buying 10-year bonds as we
approach 450 and go higher. The one
thing to remember why we feel
comfortable buying bonds on backup. If
we do for some reason break the the the
the high yields of last year, which is
our our premise, like the yield for
2025, the the the spread of that yield
or the range will be the same range in
2026. And we feel very confident about
that and buying at the higher end of the
yield because that's when the talk about
QE comes back into effect. It'll snap
back in bonds, add to the volatility.
That's why we love being active managers
in this this environment. It's perfect.
>> Well, I've got a buy recommendation for
you. Some shades. Davis, thank you.
[laughter] Demo management.
>> Pick the sign. It just came out at the
wrong time here.
>> Thank you, buddy. Appreciate it. We'll
let you go. Let's get to this move in
copper. Moves we have not seen in 17 18
years for this metal. Copper up by 9 to
10% in today's session. Monster moves.
>> Yeah. And this is being fueled by China
in particular kind of hoarding it. It
just raises this question, how far can
some of these moves go given the fact
that we're seeing penny-like stock moves
in the likes of copper and gold in
>> copper caterpillar. [music]
It's just the real world.
>> Amazing. John Sto of Oppenheimer joins
us tomorrow. Neil Dutter of Ren, Alexman
of Barclays, Michelle Weaver of Morgan
Stanley from New York City this morning.
Good morning. This was Bloomberg
surveillance.
The semifinals are set at the Australian
Open. Jessica Pagula reached the final
four for the first time in Melbourne
after she took out fellow American
Amanda Anisimova. The New Yorker will
face Alina Rabaka for a spot in the
final. On the men's side, Yanx
dispatched Ben Shelton to reach the
final four for the ninth time at the
slams. Novak Jovovic awaits in the semi.